Plans have been released for the 5101-5125 West Pico Boulevard mixed-use project in Los Angeles. The seven-storey structure will have a total of 136 studio, one-, two-, and three-bedroom flats, as well as 13 units of deed-restricted affordable housing at the extremely low-income level. A fitness centre, a business centre, a rooftop deck, a clubhouse, a dog run, and a podium-level swimming pool will also be available on-site. According to a recent proposal submitted with the Los Angeles Department of City Planning by Local Development, Inc., a stretch of commercial buildings on Pico Boulevard might be destroyed and redeveloped with multifamily housing and retail. 5101-5125 West Pico Boulevard mixed-use project, designed by Lahmon Architects, will have a brick facade on its two-story foundation to mirror the frontage of surrounding residences on Redondo Boulevard and Meadowbrook Avenue. The building’s street frontage would be lined with live/work units from the alley at Redondo around to the junction of Pico and Meadowbrook. According to the developer, construction on the 5101-5125 West Pico Boulevard mixed-use project is scheduled to begin in the second quarter of 2024. Also Read: Permit Requested for Construction of Onni Groups New Office Building in Los Angeles “For this building, we devised a distinctive design that mimics the architecture of the surrounding area. We discovered a technique to effortlessly juxtapose lower and higher sizes, resulting in a much-needed denser housing paradigm. Our objective is to deliver a solution that has its own distinct personality inspired by its neighbourhood setting and is as beneficial to its occupants as it is to its community,” said Mark Lahmon, founder of Lahmon Architects, in a statement. Local Development, located in Los Angeles, is also working on a 55-unit apartment building in Echo Park near the junction of Sunset and Alvarado. The Mid-Wilshire project is two blocks east of a newly built mixed-use building on Pico and Sycamore Avenue that is being transformed into affordable housing via the Project Homekey program.