Work on a £60 million Sugar Quay waterfront tower, a skyscraper that will become one of Plymouth’s tallest buildings will begin in 2023. Sutton Harbour Group Plc (SGC) has received planning permission for the £60 million Sugar Quay waterfront tower, which, at 21 storeys, will be just three floors lower than the Beckley Point student flats overlooking the city centre. Sugar Quay, located on the eastern side of Sutton Harbour, will house 170 apartments, restaurants, and shops, according to SHG, and will serve as the centrepiece development in the revitalization of Plymouth’s historic harbourfront. The planning committee of Plymouth City Council unanimously approved plans for the building in April 2022. On June 7, the Section 106 legal agreement with the local authority was successfully completed. According to SHG, the development will provide significant benefits to the city, its residents, and visitors, including a £3.15 million contribution to social housing and additional contributions to health, education, and welfare provision. Construction is expected to begin within the next year, allowing for the time needed to finalize construction drawings and specifications, settle construction contracts, and complete the S106 pre-construction provisions. Construction on this scale is expected to take up to three years, according to SHG. Read Also: Plans Announced for Construction of Lego Group Factory in United States Sugar Quay was cleverly designed to serve as a “sentinel building” for the harbour. The layout takes advantage of its unique location, providing a significant increase in public space as well as space for leisure and retail activities, with views of the marina, the Barbican, and the Hoe. At ground level, improvements to public areas along the east side will be made, with large open areas replacing the current narrow walkways. The Marrowbone slip will be completely integrated into the harborfront spaces. This significant milestone in the Sugar Quay project comes as work on SHG‘s nearby Harbour Arch Quay (HAQ) development continues apace. HAQ will feature a limited number of 12 two- and three-bedroom apartments, as well as two penthouses with views of Sutton Harbour Marina and Plymouth Sound.