Plans for the construction of a Lego Group factory in the United States have been announced by the Danish toy production company based in Billund, Denmark. The $1 billion (£825 million) factory will be the group’s first in the united states and the seventh with the goal of shortening the supply chain and supporting long-term growth in the Americas. It will be designed to be carbon-neutral in operation. All of its daily energy requirements will be met by renewable energy generated on-site by the solar park. The site will also be designed to use as little energy and non-renewable resources as possible. When finished, the 160,000m2 facility will employ over 1,760 people. Read Also: Construction of Parcel F, a Residential Scheme in San Francisco, California, Begins “This is an exciting step for the Lego Group,” stated Lego Group CEO Niels Christiansen. More and more families are falling in love with Lego building, and we are excited to produce Lego bricks in the United States, one of our largest markets. The location in Virginia allows us to construct a solar park, which supports our sustainability goals and provides easy access to national transit systems. We are also excited about creating fantastic job opportunities for the residents of Virginia.” Construction will start in the autumn of this year, with production set to begin in the second half of 2025. In early 2024, a temporary packaging facility will open in an existing structure nearby, creating up to 500 jobs. The new Virginia factory will mould, process, and pack Lego products to ensure they meet the company’s safety and quality standards. Each Lego brick is crafted to a hair’s width (0.005mm) accuracy to guarantee the perfect ‘clutch power’ that holds Lego creations together. Lego factories in Europe and China are also being expanded, and the Group revealed a proposal to construct a factory in Vietnam in December 2021 to aid further growth in Asia. The Lego Group employs roughly 2,600 people in the United States, where it has been in business since the 1960s. Its US headquarters are in Enfield, Connecticut, and the company operates 100 Lego-branded stores across the country.