Construction has begun on the first phase of a US$ 2bn Saint Tropez lagoon community in Houston. This is one of the twelve master-planned lagoon communities to be developed by Megatel Homes in Texas. Construction on the first phase of this project is expected to be finished by Q1 of 2023. The aim is to accommodate the exponential growth in the Houston area. The co-founder of Megatel Homes, Zach Ipour said, the company is working towards building a dozen of such communities across Texas. He also mentioned that this move was due to the rising demand for such amenity-rich developments in the region. Megatel expects the pre-selling for Saint Tropez Lagoon Community phase 1 to commence in about 60 days. Also Read Construction begins on Altis Blue Lake Community in Palm Beach The Saint Tropez lagoon community will occupy over 1,000 acres and feature up to 4500 single-family and multifamily units. The apartments will vary in size, ranging from 1,500 square feet to 4,000 square for single-family lots. Multifamily rental units will offer tenants a mix of one-, two- and three-bedroom units. The price ranges for the units are set between $350,000 to $700,000 for the Single-family lots. While the rates for multi-family units will have a starting price of $1,200 per month. One of the key features of the Saint Tropez lagoon community is the man-made lagoon and its white sand beaches. Several other attractions will also be available at this location. They include kayaking, a swim-up bar, paddle boarding and water slide tower, in addition to FlowRider surf simulator, playground, splash park cabanas, and soundstage. The development will also include an entertainment district, which will be left open to the general public. This hang out spot will consist of an adult lounge, restaurant, bar, an arcade for teenagers, a bowling alley and an immersive indoor play area for kids. Other shared amenities provided for the residents include a yoga studio, fitness center, event venues and a home design center.