UofL Hospital expansion project, developed by UofL Health, one of the foremost academic health providers just adjacent to the main hospital on East Chestnut and South Jackson  Streets in downtown Louisville, recently broke ground. The development is commencing with the construction of a seven-storey tower, as part of UofL’s $144 million hospital expansion and upgrade project. According to the developers, this initial phase of the UofL Hospital expansion project will bring a new 360-bed facility to the University Hospital complex, which will provide private rooms for patients and also create about 325  employment opportunities for various positions including nurses, clinical and non-clinical support staff. Also Read Lewis County Hospital Projects to Begin in New York, USA The development plans also include a new observation unit with 24-bed spaces to be built as part of the UofL Hospital expansion project, along with 20 operation rooms; which raises the total number of licenced beds at the hospital to 404, once the project reaches completion. Some sections of the tower will be left unfinished and set aside for other future developments, while construction on the designated areas is expected to commence as early as next month, with the delivery date set for late 2024. The UofL director of critical care services, Kim Wilson, commended the UofL Hospital expansion project, stating that the private rooms were essential for the welfare of patients, and private space was needed for them to heal better and receive visitors. She mentioned that the current semi-private rooms at the hospital were not suitable, as the nurses are always bothered about how the patients would find certain procedures uncomfortable or embarrassing. Lori Gonzalez, the University of Louisville President also pointed out that the hospital expansion project would not only be beneficial for the patients, but it would also serve in boosting the economy of the city. He said this new development round has had a huge impact on the dirtier downtown region and beyond. A chuck of the funding will be provided through a $415 million bond offering, which requires approval from the Metro Council. UofL Health said in a statement, that they are hopeful the Metro Government will provide support in form of Hospital Revenue Bonds, which will be invested back into developing the hospital’s facilities.