Your home should be a place where you feel safe and secure. So when you are moving to a new home, you should make sure that it offers the level of safety that you are comfortable with. So before moving in, here are some things that you should check for so you know that your building is safe: The first thing that you should do to ensure that your building is safe is checking for certificates from concerned departments. Some of the most important are structural integrity and fire safety, as well as compliance to other building safety standards. As a potential resident, you have the right to ask if your building is compliant to all required inspections, and if you are able to see the fairly recent certifications, then this would mean that your building has been subjected to routine inspections. It is best to live in a building managed by someone who understands the importance of inspections such as the top condominium developers in Cebu. While certificates are able to say that your building has been inspected already, there’s no harm in making a bit of inspection to find out any possible safety issues that have been overlooked. If you are not an engineer, then there are limits to what you can find, so you can only rely on general observations such as whether or not you see cracks on the exterior of your building, as well as other poorly-maintained areas on the outside of the building. After making an observation of the building for safety purposes, the next step is to look inside, particularly in the common areas such as the lobby, fire exits, hallways, elevators, and other parts of the building that you have access to. The idea is to make a general inspection just to assess how well you think the property has been inspected, to ascertain its safety level and if you think that there are lapses in the inspection, then you should report them to the landlord for them to address the issues that you have identified. From there, the next step is to inspect the actual unit for which you intend to live in. After inspecting the common areas, it’s now time to assess whether your unit has been maintained well, and if there are issues that need to be addressed before you move in. Doing this before you move in is very important as doing it later may give the impression that damages were caused by you. So it’s best that you be thorough in inspecting your potential new home before certifying that you accepted the unit in good condition. If there are areas that need to be addressed, make sure that you reschedule your move in so that you would not be exposed to whatever risk these damages pose. If you think that after doing your personal inspection, you are not satisfied with the safety or your building, then you may also consider getting the services of a professional inspector. With this, someone that has more experience in the field will be able to more comprehensively check in areas that you did a basic check. Doing this will give you more confidence granted that an expert will do the right job. And where issues may be identified, the expert will be able to point out the right course of action needed to ensure your safety. Your safety should be your top priority so before you move into your new home, make sure to follow the steps above so you can make sure that your building is as safe as it can be.