Plans have been unveiled for the development of a multimillion-dollar University of North Carolina (UNC)’s Charlotte 49ers EverGreen Athletics Facilities project that will be completed in multiple phases over a period of 12 to 15 years. A blueprint of the project was presented by the Kansas City sports design firm HOK and locally-based Jenkins Peer Architects. According to the plan, the project includes doubling the seating capacity of the Jerry Richardson Stadium at the school’s campus, along with several renovations and upgrades of existing facilities. The aim is to promote the overall development of the entire 49ers athletic program. Designs for the first phase of the 49ers EverGreen Athletics Facilities Project are already underway. This phase is estimated at $102 million and it covers the first expansions to the Jerry Richardson Stadium, which includes the addition of new suites, a hospitality space, club seats and a new press box for the media crew. An upper deck with 2,754 seats will be constructed in this phase as well, to increase the total number of seats to 21,180 from the current 15,300 seats. Other developments for the first phase include the construction of a clubhouse for the baseball program and renovations to the male and female basketball locker rooms. In addition, a new 2000 capacity stadium has been planned for construction, which will be shared by the male and female soccer teams, along with the newly announced female lacrosse program. Also Read Construction of Skandalaris Football Center, Michigan State University’s New Football Center to Begin Soon The second phase of the 49ers EverGreen athletics facilities project will involve the addition of an upper bowl with a seating capacity of 9,500, bringing the total capacity of the stadium to just above 30,000 seats. A third phase of the expansion is planned for the future, which is expected to add an additional 15,000 seats and increase the seating capacity to above 45,000. At the end of the stadium’s expansion, a 97,000 square feet indoor practice facility for the football program will also be developed. According to the director of athletics, Mike Hill, funding for the 49ers EverGreen Athletics Facilities project would not come from student fees. He said the project would be financed through private fundraising and the stadium’s design and expansion could take about two and a half years to complete. HOK, will lead the project’s development and work with the award-winning local firm, Jenkins-Peer Architects who designed the Jerry Richardson Stadium.