Previously stalled due to the pandemic and the resulting supply chain issues, the construction works of the 80 MW Adams County solar farm which are being carried out by Energix Renewables, a Virginia-based developer of utility-scale solar projects at the Straban Township in Pennsylvania, is set to resume. The solar plant was planned as part of the city’s climate change strategy, aimed at generating 100% of its electricity through the use of renewable sources by 2030. It was initially expected to break ground in 2020 and become fully operational in 2021, but unfortunately, the plant’s conditional approval was scheduled for the end of 2019, which coincided with the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. Now the developers are back on track and expect the plant to begin producing power by the end of 2023. Also Read Construction of 100-Megawatt Sustainable Sunflower Solar in Mississippi, Completed The plans for the Adams County solar farm’s hardware installations involved mounting solar panels on tracking units, which are able to move based on the best available light in the area and connect to the regional transmission grid operated by PJM Interconnection. According to Energix, First Solar modules would be mounted on single-axis trackers and the development will be spread over a 1,200-acre property, of which a certain portion will be covered by panels. About 22% of the power supply needed for several Philadelphia government buildings, which include Philadelphia International Airport, the City Hall, and the water department will come from the Adams County solar farm Project. In exchange, an agreement was reached for the city to purchase electricity from Energix at the rate of $44.50 per megawatt-hour over a 20 year period. An Energix spokesman, Danny Fitzpatrick, said the Adams County solar farm Project, was in its final stages of preparation before the actual construction commences, and the Energix was looking forward to breaking ground in the coming months. Fitzpatrick also added that all panels would be available for installation on time due to the company’s strong relationship with First Solar, a renowned panel manufacturer in the U.S.