Kyle 35 Logistics Park developer, Alliance Industrial Co., is set to move forward with the project which will be one of the most significant and first-of-its-kind industrial speculative within Kyle, Texas. The proposed industrial project is intended to span more than 1 million square feet between Austin and San Antonio. The Kyle 35 Logistics Park which will be developed along the Texas Innovation Corridor, off Interstate-35, is expected to create about 1,500 jobs in the region, which could pay around $41,600 annually. The project has already ushered in a Capital investment worth up to $115 million, according to officials. Development plans for the project show five logistics facilities to be built at Kyle 35 Logistics Park. The facilities at the park will range from 140,000 square feet to 475,000 square feet, designed with specifications for either single-loaded or cross-docked layouts, with employee and trailer parking. The buildings would also have clear heights between 36 to 40 feet and they would be occupied by tenants in need of single or multiple spaces, within the ranges of 40,000 and 1.4 million square feet. Also Read US$ 4.8M Caldwell Industrial Park to be Developed in Ohio, United States Alliance received support from the city in the form of tax reductions for its Logistics Park project. These tax reductions which could be up to 75% for 10 years, will not exceed $4.9 million. Hays County also gave a property tax subsidy valued at $3.4 million, but not more than 75% for a 10-year duration. Both the city and the county entered into agreements with a subsidiary of the development company, Yarrington Logistics. Chad Parrish, the managing director of Alliance Industrial Co. expressed his excitement for his company’s success in becoming a part of the emergence of the largest ever speculative space within the Texas Innovation Corridor. He also spoke on the much-needed infrastructure, which the Kyle 35 Logistics Park would offer to Hays County and the support it would provide to companies willing to embark on any business venture in the area.