The construction works for the 5 MW Winthrop solar farm in Maine, have been launched. Nexamp is developing the project on a 25-acre site near Winthrop town, previously designated for residential construction. Thomas Saliba, a former trustee of MaineHealth is leasing out the property for the Winthrop solar farm project. Nexamp will own Winthrop solar farm and handle all associated maintenance or engineering on the property. The construction works will be carried out by Borrego, a renowned EPC and O&M service provider for large-scale energy across the U.S. As a former energy economist, Saliba mentioned that he conducted an extensive study on solar builders before settling for Borrego. The developers expect the solar project to be completed by early 2023. Once operational, the Winthrop solar farm will power more than 800 homes. This estimate is based on data from the Solar Energy Industries Association. According to the data 1-megawatt from the 5 MW farm could power up to 164 U.S homes. Also Read: Construction begins at 44MW solar farm in Maine In addition to energy production, the Winthrop solar farm project also focuses on land preservation and protecting the surrounding environment. Saliba confirmed this by saying that the methods to be used for the project would “protect the land it sits on and the surroundings”. V.P of channel operations at Nexamp, Jenn DeLaney, said Nexamp and Borrego share a deep commitment to providing their communities with clean energy. He said Winthrop solar farm had moved forward, due to the collaborative partnership both companies developed over the years. DeLaney also commended Saliba for his inspiring commitment to environmental sustainability and Maine’s future. Jared Connell, V.P of development at Borrego New England, spoke on the importance of local energy generation for Maine residents. He mentioned that projects like the Winthrop solar farm would provide a backup during global disruptions. Connell said this project has a high potential for success with a landowner like Tom Saliba. He added that the success was more gratifying and rewarding when working with people who are also passionate about the course.