The Folkestone’s Grade II-listed Leas Pavilion renovation, and Edwardian’s tearoom and theatre renovation, which has been on hold for years are now set to commence. Folkestone’s Grade II-listed Leas Pavilion will be restored as part of a nine-story residential development of luxury flats facing the English Channel. Built in 1902, the pavilion has been a tearoom, theatre, cinema, bowling alley, snooker hall, as well as a nightclub for many years. Read Also: Agreement signed for Construct of Main Tower for St Michael’s Project in Manchester According to Selahattin Yalcin, developer Gustavia’s director, the neighbourhood can be confident that “one of the region’s oldest jewels” will have landed in good hands when building commences this month. The pavilion will be restored, and after completion, people will be able to host events for up to 100 days annually. “We much understand that the pavilion holds a lot of great memories for the residents of Folkestone. The local community can be assured that those memories will be preserved as we carefully restore this beautiful pavilion to its original form within a refurbished structure that will last another 100 years and more,” said Mr Yalcin. Since its closure in 2007, the structure has deteriorated significantly, with water damage and timber decay. For years, people campaigned to save the building, also known as the Leas Club, with support from a number of celebrities on stage and screen. Friends of the Leas Pavilion (FLP), a non-profit organization, was also formed to address concerns about the Grade II listed building’s deterioration. Gustavia, who contracted Hythe-based architect Hollaway Studio for the development, added that the restoration will include “the precise removal, replenishment, and reassembly of several buildings’ historical elements” so as to preserve the building’s original appearance. “We plan to upgrade the pavilion in accordance with the heritage planning conditions, which needs us to salvage as many of its original features as we can,” Mr Yalcin explained.