The construction of SeAH Wind Offshore Wind Factory in Teesside, a built-up area around the River Tees in the north of England, is set to begin next month after the South Korean steel manufacturer SeAH Wind received approved planning permission for the scheme. K2 will reportedly serve as the construction manager of the scheme while Ashton Smith Associates will be the architects, Clarkebond the civil, structural, and geo-environmental engineers, and Waterman Group as the building services engineers. Wilson James has been appointed to handle the logistics of the project. According to the South Korean firm the procurement of specialist trade contractors is at an initial stage while the process for the appointment of a piling contractor is nearing the end. Local labour targets will be included in all contractor appointments. Also Read: Plans Announced for Construction of Smith+Nephew Medical Facility in East Yorkshire, England Upon completion, presumably in 2024, the massive facility, at over 800 metres in length, will provide 1.13 million square feet of factory space for the production of monopiles up to 120 metres in length, 15.5 metres in diameter, and 3,000 tons, which are used to support offshore wind turbines. Speaking on the project, Nick Coke, Director of Project Management at K2, said that this is a tremendously exciting scheme for the company as it will help establish their strong experience in the industrial manufacturing industry. “It helps us deliver a market-leading, world-class, and pioneering facility that will kick-start much-needed restoration on Teesside. This presents new challenges because the project requires us to deliver for a Korean client who is new to the UK. In order to expedite the scheme and allow SeAH to get their product to market faster, we are leveraging our expertise in construction management, letting work begin on-site as soon as possible,” explained coke. Jonathan Purcell, Waterman’s Managing Director for Building Services – North, on the other hand, said, “SeAH Wind’s sustainable manufacturing unit will help secure the north-position east as an alternative energy powerhouse, while also contributing significantly to the local region. This project is a great addition to our industrial portfolio, which includes a number of alternative energy plans, such as wind turbine blade and marine turbine cable factories, as well as a variety of other complex fabrication and manufacturing facilities throughout the UK.”