The US$ 156M expansion project of the Henderson Hospital in Nevada has been completed. This was announced by SR Construction. SR is a premier division 1, statewide, vertically integrated commercial & industrial general contractor. The project included the construction of a six-story patient tower. It also included the installation of 105 medical/surgical beds. There was also the relocation and enlargement of the existing 25-bed observation nursing unit to 36 beds. This phase also saw the addition of six Labor & Delivery suites, and another Caesarean-section surgical suite. Also Read: Construction of South 95 Logistics Center in Nevada 18 new Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) beds and four antepartum beds for high-risk mothers-to-be were also added to Henderson Hospital’s Women’s Services division as part of the project.  A three-story parking structure with 480 spots was erected to support the predicted increased patient load. It has the option to extend to six levels. The tower construction comes on the heels of a $24 million expansion project that included a 25-bed observation nursing unit adjacent to the Emergency Department. It also included eight additional ER rapid medical exam/triage rooms, and a second CT scanner. Shelling out several more surgical suites and enhancements to the emergency entrance and lobby areas were included. On July 24, 2020, the observation nursing unit opened for patient care. “We are thrilled to announce the completion of the Henderson Hospital tower. We would want to thank our valued customer, The Valley Health System, and all of our trade partners who contributed to the success of this project,” said Bret Loughridge, President of SR Construction. “It is also critical to analyze the background of this construction project. SR Construction worked diligently during the pandemic. Their work will go a long way in assisting us to effectively open extra inpatient and emergency room beds. This will consequently help us to care for the massive number of individuals who need medical care. It’s a genuine monument to everyone involved’s dedication and effort in getting our community the treatment they needed,” said Sam Kaufman, CEO of Henderson Hospital. HDR Architecture P.C. designed the Henderson hospital patient tower.