Safa Two Tower project which is located right opposite the Safe One tower near Safa Park, a 64 hectares of an urban park in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, has officially been launched by Damac Properties and de GRISOGONO. Featuring living units as well as public spaces, the 80-storey Safa Two Tower project is based on the Swiss, luxury jeweller’s signature styles, alongside an underlying scarlet theme. At the base, middle, and crown, both Safa One and Safa Two will be interlinked by unique and defining features that include a “ruby heart” that is at the centre, while on the 60th floor, there will be a floating pool. Safa Two tower project will feature extensive green features across living units and public spaces. This includes a one-of-a-kind ‘Fog Forest’ at the crown of the tower featuring lush landscape and a manmade fog, surrounded by laser icon shows, featuring F&B outlets and a majestic observation deck offering expansive views over the Dubai skyline. Also Read: Construction Works for W Residences Dubai Project Begins, UAE An extravagant Glass Slide is planned at the top level from the Fog Forest to the Edge Walk that will be spread across Safa One and Safa Two at the crown of the project. In addition, there will be an artificial beach pool on the podium level surrounded by palm trees set in a tropical ambience and a public elevated ‘glass pool’. The Senator Vice President to DAMAC, Niall McLoughlin, stated that the Safa Two Tower Project is exclusive in every right adding that the project is set to elevate luxury living to a whole new level. “The scarlet theme has been used to convey thrill and adventure across the property. Such features will appeal to those that seek a community that is contemporary but premium and equipped, explained the Senator Vice President adding that the architecture of the tower will recollect a signature gem from Fawaz Gruosi’s collection. The highly sought-after natural ruby ring gem boasts an impressive 45.39 carat and is referred to as ‘Virgin Scarlet’.