The main tower for St Michael’s project in Manchester, a major city in the northwest of England, is set for construction following the signing of an agreement for the development of the project by Gary Neville, a former footballer turned property developer and fellow Manchester developer Salboy. The 40-story tower will be the second and final phase of Salboy‘s landmark Manchester project that features hotels, flats, and office units. It will be built by Domis Construction, Salboy’s dedicated construction partner. Domis has developed over 2,500 homes across 10 development sites in the last five years, and the Deansgate tower is another major project win. The £200 million project, designed by Hodder + Partners, will include a five-star 191-bed hotel, 181 serviced flats, and amenity and leisure spaces for residents and guests. Also Read: Los Angeles Supervisors approve bond for Vermont-Manchester complex Initial construction is expected to begin in January 2023, just 12 months after the start of Phase 1, the 185,000 sq ft commercial component of the scheme being built by Bowmer & Kirkland. This 9-story stepped building is located on the podium east of the main tower. There will be rooftop bars as well as a large outdoor rooftop terrace. The scheme will be completed in its entirety in 2026. “The Relentless team has been on this project for 15 years and we’ve never diluted our desire on what has been an incredibly long journey to construct this complex and challenging project,” said Gary Neville of developer Relentless. He thanked Salboy’s Simon Ismail and Betfred’s Fred Done for their contributions to the ambitious project. “Our goal with St Michael’s has always been to create a world-class destination in our city that commemorates our local passion, spirit, and hospitality while exceeding international 5 star standards.” “Now it’s time for Salboy, Domis, and Relentless to come together to make this development a reality and bring a destination at the sorts of international standards that all of Manchester can be proud of,” said Ismail, managing director of Salboy.