Genset maintenance is key to prevent damages on your equipment and to guarantee its smooth operation. After the installation and start- up of your generator, it is very important to perform preventive maintenance operations, which should be done by properly trained technicians. Here are Grupel’s tips on how to keep your generator running at its best: Check the unit twice a year Even if it is not in use, it is crucial to check on the condition of the genset’s components. Look for loose or worn cables, stuck buttons, hose leaks and corroded elements. Ask for spare parts and replacements, if needed. Minimize dust and dirt Excessive dust can lead to loss of power of the alternator and the engine, and will quickly oversaturate the filters’ air intake, possibly causing your generator to stop. Maintain your genset free of dust and dirt, by cleaning it as much as possible on a regular basis, but do not use solvents or cleaning products that may cause other damage to its components. Start the generator regularly Even if it is not used frequently, it is recommended to start your genset every three months and allow it to run for a few minutes. In doing so, you will help keep its components lubricated by circulating the oil through the engine and you will be able to verify if it is running in top form. Also Read 10 Essential steps for proper diesel generator maintenance Replace the valve cover gasket after every 1000h of use Time and usage can dry out or crack the valve cover gasket, making it unable to contain the engine’s oil, which can lead to engine failure. Change oil, diesel, antifreeze and air filters regularly Genset maintenance also involves regularly checking the condition of your generator set’s oil, fuel, antifreeze, and air filters. These procedures can really make a difference and help keep your equipment away from degradation. In most cases, the engine oil level is checked with a dipstick, and depending on the level shown on it, you must add or drain the oil. Before starting the generator, check the amount of fuel in the tank and make sure that there are no leaks. Check the antifreeze level by using your finger in the antifreeze filler cap. The cleaning and replacement of filters are also good practices. Inspect the batteries The accumulation of lead sulphates on the batteries’ plates ends up rendering them useless, which is one of the biggest causes for your genset not starting up. Check the batteries’ water level, clean and tighten its terminals and check its voltage. Do you need maintenance or spare parts? Grupel provides a maintenance and multi-brand spare parts service. About Grupel Grupel is a Portuguese company, founded in 1976, that produces and sells portable and stationary power generators up to 3500kVA, as well as portable lighting towers. Equipped with components from internationally renowned brands besides their own brand, Grupel products are distinguished by their reliability and resistance. They have the largest production unit of power generators, in Portugal, located in Aveiro – which allows them a great flexibility to produce standard power generators and complex and customized special projects. They have a specialized team that creates solutions tailored to the specific needs of customers around the world, also ensuring quality services at all stages of the life cycle of their products, from design to technical assistance and supply of spare parts. Grupel is a brand distinguished by Portuguese consumers with the Five Stars Award and holds the SME Leader status, in  Portugal. It is also internationally recognized, being present in over 70 countries and with an export volume of about 84% of its turnover. 