Construction of a 420-home build-to-rent scheme in Brentford, West London, at the Capital Interchange Way development has begun. Developed by the joint venture between Telford Homes and Catalyst the project entails the construction of three residential blocks of varying heights that will feature a total of 197 units for affordable rent or shared ownership. The residential blocks will be built over a connecting podium base that will house 45,000 square feet of commercial and retail space with street frontage as well as undercroft car and cycle parking. Residents will also have access to landscaped gardens and outdoor recreational areas as well as nearby boutique shopping at Kew Village, Syon Park, and the Royal Botanic Gardens, as well as Chiswick High Street. The project will also have rail and road connections, putting the heart of London “within easy reach,” having direct trains to London Waterloo, Richmond as well as Stratford from nearby Kew Bridge and Gunnersbury stations. A proposed new transport interchange will also offer direct access to the upcoming Crossrail and HS2 services. Read Also: Project for Construction of Derriford Hospital in Plymouth, UK, Approved “After much planning, we are delighted to begin work on this exciting project with Telford Homes,” said Philip Jenkins, executive director of development at Peabody. When completed, the 420-Home Build-to-Rent Scheme in Brentford will blend seamlessly into the city, contributing to and complementing the area’s ongoing regeneration. “Future residents will have a lot to look forward to stylish new homes, beautifully landscaped outdoor spaces, and easy access to nearby shops, transportation, and visitor attractions. In 2025, we hope to welcome residents to this fantastic new neighbourhood.” Read Also: Quayside 12, Newcastle’s Largest Build to Rent Scheme Receives Planning Permission “Working alongside Catalyst to develop this project, supplying high-quality affordable housing in a prime location, has been a delight,” said Jerome Geoghegan, group land planning director at Telford Homes. “We have spent a long time in the planning process, ensuring that everything is perfect before work begins, and we are delighted to see our vision taking shape. With excellent transportation links, the 420-home build-to-rent scheme in Brentford will provide future buyers with a variety of exciting amenities, including a thriving neighbourhood just a stone’s throw away.”