The construction management of the US$ 220M Blue Line Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Project in Indianapolis will be led by Stantec Inc., an international professional services company in the design and consulting industry. The line will be the city’s third BRT route, connecting to the airport, the current Red Line and the anticipated Purple Line, as well as other bus routes. The 24-mile all-battery-electric bus system will follow the existing Route 8 route, offering more dependable services to communities with the highest concentration of zero-car households. “We are thrilled to be partnering with a leader like Stantec for the third phase of our Bus Rapid Transit implementation,” stated Jennifer Pryz, IndyGo’s chief development officer. “The Marion County Transit Plan relies heavily on the Blue Line.” This initiative will alter how Indianapolis residents and visitors use public transportation, particularly to and from the airport.” Stantec will provide construction management solutions for the road, stations, and utilities, as well as overall integration, in collaboration with Shiel Sexton and Shrewsberry. To increase diversity in the project supply chain, the firm has committed to a 25% participation goal for disadvantaged business enterprises (DBEs). Implementing dedicated BRT lanes and building stations will require navigating obstacles such as avoiding utility conflicts, maintaining access and circulation during construction, and guaranteeing that system integration for communications and signals is functional prior to service. Read Also: U.S. Army Corps to begin planning the Ike Dike barrier project in Texas “The Blue Line BRT Project illustrates an important investment in transit-needy communities, and BRT is especially well-suited to medium-sized cities seeking to gain effective infrastructure investments,” said Brian Norris, senior vice president and construction project manager at Stantec. “We are elated to collaborate with IndyGo because we know that offering equitable service is the foundation that guides decision-making at every phase of a project, from planning to completion.”