If you’re tired of looking out of the window to see a garden that’s run down and gloomy, it’s time for a renovation. But how do you know which approach to take? Do you get professional landscapers in at an extortionate cost? If this is out of your budget, then it’s worth considering doing most, if not all, of the work yourself, and in this handy guide we’ll run through how to plan your garden renovation so that you’re prepared for any eventualities right from the start. The first thing you want to think about when it comes to a garden renovation is how you actually use the space or want to use it in the future. This will help you to shape the garden around your lifestyle and family. For example, if you have kids, then an easy to maintain grass space will come in handy in the summer months when they’re playing outside. If you live alone or with a partner, and space for kids isn’t a necessity, then you could consider going for a modern, sleeker look that offers a wider choice when it comes to design and materials. If you’re stuck for inspiration, you can find some great ideas online that can give you a starting point. When renovating your garden, there are a few legalities to consider, especially when it comes to things like outdoor lighting, as any lighting additions need to come with the correct certifications. For instance, any fittings for your outdoor lighting need to be IP rated which will prevent any risk of water ingress. If in doubt, it’s best to do some further research on outdoor lighting or consult a professional. Lastly, you want to make sure that the garden plan you design works with the overall layout of your home and suits your style in a way that is timeless and will last for years to come. This is a big investment, so it’s important to avoid fads and make the right choice for your décor. Remember that you’ll most often be viewing the garden from inside your home, so consider how the light at different times of the day will affect the overall look and try to visualise your plan when looking out of different windows and levels, to make sure you’re happy with your ideas. You can even draw up a plan on a laptop or tablet so that you can keep coming back to it. When considering design features, timeless features like decking areas can also add value to your home, so when you’re planning your layout, make sure to consider different options that will secure your home for generations to come. Experts in the UK tend to agree that garden decking can add up to an average of 10% to your property’s value, so this is really a no brainer when it comes to planning your renovation. When it’s time for a garden renovation, the opportunities are endless to create a beautiful space that works perfectly for your goals and vision around how you’ll utilise your space. So long as you follow the guidance to ensure that your renovation meets any legal regulations, as well as choose a classic design that will stand the test of time, your stunning new space awaits.