A contractor has been chosen for the construction of Radius Payment Office Complex at Arden Square in Crew Business Park, England. The contractor, Caddick Construction, was appointed by Radius Payment Solutions. Caddick Construction is a Knottingley headquartered, family-owned construction and civil engineering business. Radius Payment Solutions on the other hand is a payment and fleet services company headquartered in Crewe, Cheshire. The scheme’s architects are AEW Architects, and the engineers are Cundall and David Webb Associates. Walker Sime is in charge of quantity surveying, and Space Invader is in charge of interior design. Avid Property Consultants handles project management. The new futuristic £14.6 million three-story office complex will be built to BREEAM excellent standards. This will make it both energy efficient and a pleasant place to work. The emphasis will be on employee well-being, as with Radius’ other facilities in Crewe. Radius Payment Office Complex at Arden Square in Crew will feature amenities such as a barista coffee bar, pizzeria, and Star Wars themed sky bar. These is in addition to an outdoor seating and yoga areas, all designed around an eye-catching conical shaped glazed atrium. Also Read: Contractor bags contract to construct 456,000 sq ft Crewe 460 logistics unit Radius’s fast-growing e-mobility business will install and run electric vehicle chargers in 25 of the 41,043 sq. ft. office scheme’s parking areas. The project is expected to be completed in the summer of 2023. This will allow Radius to expand its Crewe-based workforce to over 1,000 employees. Crewe Business Park is a 67-acre site off the A534 that is already regarded as one of the North West’s premier business parks, housing a number of research and high-tech manufacturing centers. Radius Payment Solutions is already headquartered at Radius Campus on Crewe Business Park. The company has offices near the area at Herald Park. According to Bill Holmes, the additional floor space will be used for the company’s future “growth and development.” This, the Radius Payments Solutions founder and CEO said, indicates the companies continued commitment to the town.