The kitchen is often viewed as the heart of the home. It can be where the whole family gets together and is a real hub and hive of activity. Not only is it for cooking, but it is also a place for socialising and connecting as a family. If you are considering a kitchen extension, then it is very important to think about how you want to utilise this space. When undertaking a kitchen extension, make a plan for the increased space you are going to have. How do you want to use it? Do you want a walk-in pantry, a utility area, or perhaps a dining area? All of these are not only beneficial to you but can also add value to your home. The benefits of having a kitchen diner, especially if you have a young family, are great. If you can extend your kitchen, having the kitchen at one end and a dining area at the other end makes serving up dinner a whole lot quicker and easier. The kids can be right there doing homework on the kitchen table whilst you prepare dinner. Get some comfy dining chairs and everyone will want to spend time in the kitchen with you. It’s also great for entertaining dinner guests as you can chat to your guests whilst preparing dinner. This makes the kitchen a very social place. Perhaps you are extending your kitchen and also making way for a utility room. This is another excellent addition to any home. Being able to have your laundry in a separate room that you can close the door on not only reduces noise but also has a better aesthetic for your home. You could also have a second sink in the utility where all the dirty work gets done. Washing muddy football boots or used paint brushes can be done in the utility sink rather than in the kitchen sink. Perhaps you already have a formal dining room that you want to continue to use. You could always extend your kitchen to include an island or a peninsula breakfast bar. That way you can have people sit and eat breakfast or tea in the kitchen and have that social aspect, but you can also still use the dining room. In that case, there may be room for a more comfortable seating area at one end of the kitchen. You could buy armchairs or a small sofa for one corner, which then creates another social space where other people can sit whilst you are preparing meals in the kitchen. Or somewhere for you to sit and collapse after the washing up! Make it cosy with a basket full of blankets, and perhaps a little table for you to pop a glass of wine or cup of tea. There is a lot to think about when planning a kitchen extension, especially with regard to how you want the space to be used.