The groundbreaking of a US$ 63M Trailhead Multifamily project in Fort Worth, Texas, took place recently at the Chisholm Trail Ranch. The developers, Titan Development and Aberg Property Company intend to construct the new apartment buildings as part of the 625-acre Chisholm Trail Ranch community, which is situated westward of the Chisholm Trail Parkway. The Trailhead multifamily project in Fort Worth will be developed on a 13.5-acre site located on the northeast corner of McPherson and Brewer Boulevard; offering residents a low-density apartment complex, which is in close proximity to major and growing employers of various industries in Dallas-Fort Worth, such as manufacturing, oil and gas, aviation, manufacturing, and hospitality. Development plans for the Trailhead multifamily project will involve the construction of 284 units spread across seven apartment buildings. The featured apartment units will include a mix of one-bedroom, two-bedroom,  three-bedroom and studio units. All units will also be furnished with high-end fixtures, finishes and appliances. Other shared amenities at the apartment complex will include a pool, a dog park, garages and covered parking, bicycle storage, and a pickleball court. Also Read Lyra Residential Tower to be Developed in Boston, Massachusetts According to the developers, the Trailhead multifamily project in Fort Worth would provide a Class A property with a classic Texas Western theme. Additionally, all the landscaping, decorative art, and other architectural designs used for the project were intended to pay homage to the legendary Chisholm Trail which was originally built in the late 1800s. Residents will also have access to a large park on the property for leisurely activities and relaxation. The Executive V.P at Aberg Property, Christopher Ray, mentioned that the location of the new Trailhead multifamily project was ideally situated in a region which has had one of the highest population growth rates so far in the nation. He said the data gathered from Aberg’s research, while planning industrial developments, showed that multifamily housing was crucial to the economic growth of the area. Ray also added that his company was looking forward to working with Titan, to build the best-in-class living apartments in the new master-planned community. Construction on the Trailhead multifamily project is scheduled to be completed by the first quarter of 2025, and it will be the first investment made from TDREF III, which is the latest of Titan’s funding programs. Links Construction LLC will serve as the general contractor and Lincoln Apartment Management will be the operator.