The implementation of the US$ 161M Sanford Orthopedic Hospital project, which is developed by Sanford Health has commenced, with the recent groundbreaking that took place at its main Sioux Falls campus in South Dakota. The hospital building, which was initially announced in 2020 before the outbreak of COVID-19, will be the campus’ tallest building, rising as high as 9-stories. The Sanford Orthopedic Hospital project will occupy up to 205,000 square feet and the new health facility will replace the parking lot used by visitors to the Sanford Children’s hospital. The building will be positioned on the south side of the Sanford Children’s Hospital and west of the surgical tower. A connecting path will also be created linking the new hospital to the back side of the surgical tower. Also Read Lewis County Hospital Projects to Begin in New York, USA The hospital project will make use of the unused 44,000 square feet of remodelled space, adjacent to the Sanford Surgical tower, along with 161,000 square feet of new space. Design plans for the project show 12 operating rooms, 19 inpatient rooms and 56 medical suite rooms to be used as hotel rooms by family members of patients. According to Dr Kristofer Kimber, an orthopaedic surgeon at Sanford Health, these rooms will also be used to accommodate patients who may need close observation, but may not necessarily be required to stay overnight. The hospital will also be equipped with an intraoperative MRI machine, which will offer real-time imaging during surgical procedures, making it the new home of the Orthopedic Residency Program. The Sanford Orthopedic Hospital project is expected to create more employment opportunities in Sanford, and replace several orthopaedic surgeons which the health organization has lost in recent months. The hospital project is scheduled to reach completion by the fall of 2025, and Sanford intends to recruit between 10 to 15 surgeons at the new facility within the next two or four years. The development team for the Sanford Orthopedic Hospital project will include Henry Carlson Construction, as the general contractor, along with the Sioux Falls-based Architecture Incorporated and  Chicago-based HKS, serving as the designers.