The construction of an education, medical, and community campus in Earlston, Scotland, is set to be carried out by Morrison Construction, Scotland’s leading contractor with a strong offering in construction, investments and facilities management. The company was appointed by Hub South East, the development partner of choice for public sector bodies in Edinburgh, Lothians and the Scottish Borders. It will be in charge of constructing a new Earlston Primary School, as well as an adjoining medical practice, library, and multi-use community facility. Hub South East, will oversee the scheme throughout all its stages of construction. Featuring a two-story education building and a single-story pavilion housing, the health centre will be linked by a central shared reception area that will include a community library, a community café, and multi-use shared spaces. The project will also comprise outdoor play areas and community spaces, as well as enhanced access routes to offer safer routes connecting children to their homes and the school. Read Also: Agreement signed for Construct of Main Tower for St Michael’s Project in Manchester Speaking on the project, Councillor Leagh Douglas, executive member for education and lifelong learning, said that the appointment of Morrison Construction is a significant milestone in the progression of this major project, which will completely change and modernise the education, medical, and community facilities on offer in Earlston. “As a council, we are very intimate with Morrison Construction as the tier 1 contractor for Galashiels Community Campus. This, combined with their previous experience developing high-quality projects of such scale, made them the clear choice. As the Earlston development moves forward, we anticipate to re-engage the public on the enhanced plans and soliciting their feedback. The scheduled public in-person meeting in the school hall will provide that ideal opportunity, and I would encourage as many members of the community to attend as possible,” The development’s construction work is set to begin later this year, with an initial demolition phase followed by the main building works.