A planning application has been submitted for the construction of the Catterick Integrated Care Campus in North Yorkshire, England. The £55 million development, which is set to open in the autumn of 2024, is being constructed in partnership between the NHS and the Ministry of Defence (MoD), and it is set to become the “first of its kind” integrated care campus. Tilbury Douglas has collaborated on the detailed designs with BDP, WSP, and Hoare Lea. Speaking on this milestone Tilbury Douglas project director Shaun Paramor, said, “the submission of the formal planning application, which has been seamlessly coordinated by our design partners BDP Architects & Planners, is a major milestone for the scheme and the entire team involved. The concept designs are superb and show just how phenomenal the new building will be, and feedback on the designs during our public consultation events has been overwhelmingly positive.” Also Read: Stockport’s Weir Mill Regeneration Project Implementation in England, to Begin Next Month According to Paramor, the focus is now on enabling works to ensure that the site is fully prepared for construction to begin by early next year. The enabling works include site surveys, asbestos removal, and the diversion of current services from the area to make the site safe for the construction of a building of such type. The development is intended to improve healthcare provision for the 13,000 residents of Catterick Garrison and the neighbouring Richmondshire area by bringing a variety of health and social care services under one roof in a purpose-built treatment centre. It will house general practice services as well as community services such as paediatrics, adult and child mental health, and physiotherapy. The campus also aspires to be one of the area’s first facilities of such scale to meet Net Zero Carbon (NZC) standards and the Excellent rating under the Defence Related Evaluation Assessment Methodology (DREAM) design standard. It will be constructed with a green technology plan, as well as low energy lighting, intelligent Building Management Systems, Electric Vehicle Charging Points (EVCP), and roof-mounted photovoltaic panels.