The groundbreaking ceremony for the Parmore Anna Senior Living project took place recently in the City of Anna, Texas. The event was hosted in celebration of the first-ever luxury senior living community to be developed in Anna. The Dallas-based multi-family housing developer, JPI is working in partnership with the Anna Housing Finance Corporation on the project. The Parmore Anna Senior Living community will be located towards the northwestern part of Florence Way and East Finley Boulevard. It will be the second instalment of JPI’s new set of senior housing developments. According to Ryan Combs, the Senior V.P for affordable housing at JPI, the new senior housing project has been planned to allow senior residents experience a sense of belonging, comfort and dignity. This is a 20-month-long project, which JPI’s construction team is expected to deliver by 2023. Also Read Funding Secured for The Confidential Mixed-Use Skyscraper in Seattle, Washington The Parmore Anna Senior Living community will be developed as a 150,000-square-foot property. It consists of 185 apartment units. Future residents will have access to several shared amenities. These include a fitness centre, craft room, library, clubhouse, as well as a resort-style pool and cabanas. The property is positioned at a convenient location for residents, which is just a short distance away from the intersection of US-75 and TX-121. Mayor Nate Pike of Anna, praised the Parmore Anna Senior Living development. He said that the city was excited to partner with JPI, a renowned multi-family developer. The mayor in addition said that the city would continue working towards diversifying its housing. Furthermore, he said that this first senior living community in Anna, would assist the city to meet the needs of the growing community. The Senior V. P and Construction Partner at JPI, Katie Willis also commented on the project. She said that their team’s core pillars of operation were based on collaboration, integrity, and innovation. Willis went on to say that the company was excited about building housing communities that create safe and enabling environments for seniors. She also pointed out that the milestone reached was a result of the efforts of the company’s construction team. JPI’s construction team, according to Willis consists of preconstruction, financial specialists, and quality control groups.