The Black Rock Solar Project which has been in the works since 2018, in the eastern Yakima County of Washington, was recently issued a  conditional use permit by the Yakima County Hearing Examiner, Gary Cuillier. The California-based Renewable energy developer, BayWa.r.e Solar Projects LLC  is now set to begin construction on the solar project, which will bring a new photovoltaic solar power plant to the region. According to BayWa.r.e’s Director of development, Brandon Reinhardt, construction on the  Solar Project is expected to begin by the spring of 2023. He mentioned that the construction phase would take between 16-18 months, and the aim is to have the facility fully operational by 2024. The Black Rock Solar Project will be developed on a 1,060-acre site, located 20 miles east of Moxee and north of the Rattlesnake Hills.  This will be a 94 megawatts solar project, designed with the capacity to power 20,000 homes per annum, and it will involve the installation of about 264,000 solar panels spread across the entire site. Reinhardt also pointed out that the project was aligned with the state’s goal of having utilities produce 100% renewable or zero-carbon energy by 2045. Also Read Plans Underway for Implementation of Baltimore City Community Solar Project, Maryland, USA There were about 17 conditions included by hearing examiner Cuillier in his approval of the Black Rock Solar Project, which was mostly concerned with avoiding sensitive environmental areas on the project’s 1,060-acre development site and securing proper permits during the construction phase. He also stated that the installation of solar arrays was necessary to prevent glare from extending beyond the boundaries of the property and affecting drivers commuting along State Route 24. The conditions included installing the electrical cables underground. At the public hearing, BayWa.r.e. Solar reported that it had identified up to 640 acres of usable area for the Black Rock Solar Project, which is separate from the sensitive natural and cultural resources located on the site, and about 60% of the 1,060-acre site will be occupied by panels for the power plant.