The construction of Moyer Carriage Lofts, a $55 million affordable and supportive housing building at the historic four-building Moyer Factory complex in Syracuse, a city in and the county seat of Onondaga County, New York, United States, has begun according to Governor Kathy Hochul. The Moyer Factory complex, which was erected in 1881 but has been unoccupied since 2005, will undergo a historic metamorphosis as a result of the project. It will be adaptively reused to provide 128 flats and 3,670 square feet of commercial space. Four interconnected buildings will be gutted, but the outside architectural aspects will be preserved. All units will be affordable to families earning less than 60% of the Area Median Income. Residents will have access to on-site services supported by the Empire State Supportive Housing Initiative and administered by the New York State Office of Mental Health in 50 apartments designated as supportive units. Counselling and case management will be among the supportive services provided. The project is part of Governor Hochul’s statewide strategy to make housing more accessible, egalitarian, and stable. The governor successfully secured a new US$ 25 billion, five-year comprehensive housing plan in the recently enacted State Budget, which will increase housing supply by creating or preserving 100,000 affordable homes across New York, including 10,000 with support services for vulnerable populations, as well as electrifying an additional 50,000 homes. Also Read: Plans for Edgemere Commons Supportive Housing Unveiled, New York “As we work to make New York more fair and inclusive, we must ensure that all New Yorkers have access to affordable housing and the accompanying services they require to succeed. Investing in the renovation of derelict and neglected historic buildings around the state is critical to the revival and prosperity of communities such as Syracuse. We will continue to address the housing problem by prioritizing initiatives like the Moyer Carriage Lofts that improve individuals’ lives and empower communities “Governor Hochul stated.