The first retail cluster within the Aljada Development Project has officially been opened. The opening of the first section comes right after the completion of different parts of the Aljada master plan. The first retail cluster within the development was unveiled by Arada. The retail cluster is the company’s very first. Additionally, it welcomes a diverse range of local favorites as well as global brands to the city of Sharjah. Read Also Ohud General Hospital Upgrade Project Contract Awarded, Saudi Arabia The retail cluster within the Aljada Development Project offers 6,967 meters squared of space. It represents the first section known as the East Boulevard. The East Boulevard is one of the two main avenues located within the megaproject. The East Boulevard stretch offers a range of dining, retail, and service options. It stretches for 2.2 kilometers along a walkable, wide, and tree-lined street. Some of the international brands that are featured in the East Boulevard within the Aljada Development Project include Five Guys, A well-known US burger House. Bosorus, a well-known Turkish restaurant, and Ben’s Cookies, a British cookie brand. Additionally, Bachir, the famed Lebanese ice cream brand will open its first outlet within the Aljada development. On the other hand, Mumuso, a Japanese lifestyle department store will join in. The Group CEO of Arada, Ahmed Alkhoshaibi stated that the East Boulevard is yet another progressive step towards their mission. He added that they aim to provide the ideal lifestyle for visitors and residents. He also acknowledged that the East Boulevard will secure brands of which many, are entering the Sharjah market for the first time. Located in the fast-growing Muwaileh district in the heart of New Sharjah, Aljada is a master-planned destination spread over a 24 million square foot area that is set to transform the future of the Emirate. As well as a number of residential districts, the city also includes extensive retail, hospitality, commercial, healthcare, and education offerings, all ideally located in the last large plot of available land in the center of Sharjah. Aug 2020  A new premium garden villa community has been launched by Arada at Aljada, the 24 million square foot mixed-use destination in the heart of New Sharjah. Featuring 114 villas and townhouses set in a lushly landscaped and exclusive neighborhood, homes in Sarab 2 will be available for sale from 10 August onwards. With a range of two-bedroom townhouses, three-bedroom townhouses, semi-detached villas, and four-bedroom detached villas, Sarab 2 is targeted toward professionals, couples, and families, all of whom can benefit from the balance between the tranquility of the community and its location within one of the fastest-growing mixed-use megaprojects in the region. Residents of Sarab 2 will benefit from world-class leisure and sporting facilities, including male and female gyms, a swimming pool, a children’s adventure playground, basketball and squash courts, outdoor gyms, and a mosque, all of which are set in a carefully designed green community master plan. Each resident also has access to parks direct from the back door of their garden. The launch of Sarab 2 has been brought forward following the sellout of homes in the original Sarab community, the ongoing robust demand for units at Aljada, and the continued strong performance of the local property market. Also Read: Contract for construction of phase 2 of Aljada community in UAE awarded The value of Sharjah real estate sold in the first half of 2020 rose by 4.1% to the US $1.7bn compared to the same period a year earlier, according to data released at the beginning of August by the Sharjah Real Estate Registration Department, the Emirate’s property regulator. Arada’s own first-half results showed a 10% increase in sales in comparison to the first six months of 2019, thanks to rising demand from Emirati nationals in particular, who continue to invest heavily in both Aljada and Arada’s first project, Nasma Residences. Earlier this month, the company awarded a US $115.2m contract to build the 2,000-unit East Village community, which constitutes the second phase of Aljada, as the developer pushes ahead with the construction of the AED24 billion megaproject. Construction is also progressing rapidly on the first phase of Aljada, where the first of more than 1,400 homes are scheduled to be handed over in the third quarter.  Contract for the construction of East Village, the second phase of Sharjah’s US $6.5bn mixed-use district, Aljada has been awarded by Arada. Located in the heart of Aljada, the East Village community is targeted at the younger generation and comprises a series of apartment blocks that are characterized by fresh and bold designs. Featuring just under 2,000 units in total, East Village is now 95% sold out. Valued at about US $115m, the full contract to build East Village involves the construction of 16 apartment blocks, set within a landscaped master plan. Work on East Village will begin immediately and the first homes are scheduled for completion in December 2021. Also Read: Construction of an ecological city begins in Yagma, Burkina Faso The East Village contract award comes during an extremely busy period of Arada. In July, the developer announced that its first-half sales had increased by 10% compared to the same period in 2019, citing significant investor uptake from UAE nationals as well as ramped-up interest following the successful opening of Madar at Aljada. Launched in February this year by HH Sheikh Dr. Sultan bin Muhammad Al Qasimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah, Madar at Aljada has now welcomed well over a quarter of a million visitors. The entertainment destination features a number of family-friendly attractions including the popular food district Zad, which houses 17 different types of cuisine; a free drive-in movie theatre; the Aljada Discovery Centre, which has been designed by Zaha Hadid Architects; a children’s adventure playground Playscape; and a skatepark. Arada is also making significant construction progress on the first phase of Aljada, First Avenue, where it is preparing to hand over the initial homes in the third quarter of this year. Sep 2020  The first school is set to be built at US $6.5bn Aljada megaproject in the heart of New Sharjah, UAE. This is after Arada, the developer, awarded the contract to construct the first phase to Al Zamalek General Contracting. SABIS® International School – Aljada, which is scheduled to open in September 2021, will be a member of the global SABIS® Network, which also includes the International Schools of Choueifat around the world. Work on the Aljada school has already begun, and construction will be completed in June 2021 in time for the start of the 2021-2022 school year in September. The first phase involves the construction of a kindergarten to Grade 3 (K-3) school. The second and third phases, which will add grade levels every year, will bring the school up to the K-12 level with a capacity of 4,000 students and will be completed in 2022 and 2023 respectively. With a total value of about US $60m, the school will be the first of three based at Aljada and will prepare students for success in both US- and UK-based external exams. It will be located on a 61,000 square meter plot on the south-eastern corner of the project, adjacent to the East Village residential community. The state-of-the-art campus includes spacious classrooms, science and computer laboratories, and a dedicated SABIS® Integrated Testing and Learning® (ITL®) Hall where students can take computerized exams. The campus will also house a theatre, cafeteria, library, and extensive sports facilities, including a semi-Olympic swimming pool, an indoor basketball/tennis court, an outdoor basketball court, and a full-size soccer field surrounded by a running track, providing students ample space to play the sports they love. There will be an independent Kindergarten section dedicated to the specific needs of children aged 3 to 5 with their very own indoor swimming pool, multipurpose indoor court, play areas, and a special car track. Also Read: First government headquarters launched in Egypt’s new administrative capital SABIS® International School – Aljada will be the second SABIS® Network school in Sharjah, and the fifteenth in the UAE. The history of SABIS® in the UAE, and the Emirate of Sharjah, dates back to 1976, with the opening of The International School of Choueifat – Sharjah, the first SABIS® school to operate outside Lebanon. Today, SABIS® schools educate close to 30,000 students in the UAE, and over 70,000 students around the world. With an active presence in 20 countries on five continents, SABIS® is committed to providing all students with a top-quality, international education that prepares them for success. According to HE Sheikh Sultan bin Ahmed Al Qasimi, Chairman of Arada, world-class education is just one of the opportunities that Aljada offers to residents in this transformational community, and the partnership with SABIS® is proof of this. Work is progressing rapidly at a number of different locations on the Aljada site, and this contract award is evidence of the determination to push ahead with all the assets that will be required to deliver a fully integrated destination. “This school symbolizes Arada’s commitment to education, one of Sharjah’s most important sectors. Aljada’s location next to University City ensures that families can offer their children a high-class education right the way through from kindergarten until the time they enter the workforce,” he added. Jun 2022  A major contract for the construction of Aljada Fitness Centre, the largest and most technologically advanced in Sharjah, has been awarded. Valued at AED75 million, the contract was awarded to Dubai-based RAQ Contracting by Arada Developments LLC, the developer of the Aljada master-planned community. Aljada was launched back in September 2017 and the actual construction began the following year. The development is expected to offer residential units, as well as commercial, leisure, and entertainment options. This master development currently consists of a total of 70,000 residential properties on a 2.2 km piece of land. These properties will be complemented by restaurants, medical centers, supermarkets, and several entertainment options. The contract covers the construction of a 65,000-square-foot gym within the Madar family entertainment district at the Aljada master-planned community. The gym will be operated by Wellfit, which is a successful fitness brand founded by Arada in 2021. Also Read The Jawaher Residences Development Project in Sharjah, Launched Aljada fitness center will be situated in a distinctive elliptical building. Surrounded by beautiful landscaping, the gym will be spread across two floors. It will also be separated into women’s and men’s gyms alongside fitness studios and assessment areas. The center will also feature space allocated for Mixed Martial Arts (MMA), spinning, and yoga. Additionally, there will be a special studio allocated for children. The Aljada fitness center construction project is expected to be carried out within a span of 12 months. The Group CEO of Arada, Ahmed Alkhoshaibi stated that the contract is evidence of their ambition. He acknowledged that the company aims to provide visitors and residents alike with world-class facilities as well as experiences. Ahmed also added that Wellfit is rapidly establishing itself. More so as one of the region’s premier fitness and wellness brand. As it stands, the company’s mission is to enable more active and healthy lifestyles for all. Thus, he concluded by noting that the fitness hub is in line with the company’s mission.