Construction work of The Plains Housing Development in Wakefield, New York City, has begun according to Governor Kathy Hochul. The US$ 49M affordable and supportive housing project is developed by Doe Fund and Robert Sanborn Development, a joint venture between The Doe Fund, a nonprofit organization in the United States that provides paid transitional work, housing, educational opportunities, counselling, and career training to people with histories of homelessness, incarceration, and substance abuse, and Robert Sanborn Development. The project will include 98 affordable dwellings as well as associated services. There will be 49 flats for persons experiencing homelessness and living with HIV/AIDS, and another 20 residences for elders 62 and over. The Doe Fund acquired private sector construction and permanent financing from Merchant’s Bank of Indiana and Freddie Mac, while Richman Housing syndicated tax-credit equity. The governor also introduced and secured a new $25 billion, five-year comprehensive housing plan in the recently enacted state budget, which will increase housing supply by creating or preserving 100,000 affordable homes across New York, including 10,000 with support services for vulnerable populations, as well as electrifying an additional 50,000 homes. Also Read: Hudson Piers Mixed-Use Development Construction in New York Begins “Robert Sanborn Development is thrilled to be a part of The Plains, our second cooperation with The Doe Fund. The project exemplifies our ongoing commitment to creating intelligently designed, cutting-edge homes with integrated services,” Robert remarked. “I applaud The Doe Fund for emphasizing people’s well-being with this 98-unit housing development, which includes support services that mirror the care-centre investments we need to do more of. The Bronx is the epicentre of New York City’s terrible housing issue. Since the start of the epidemic, we’ve seen rents increase and a record number of evictions in The Bronx. This puts an end to homelessness even more out of reach in the world’s richest country and is a policy failure. I am delighted to support this project and will continue to advocate for more fair, affordable, and accessible housing through government funding, such as through my newly submitted bill, The Affordable CO-OP Act,” U.S. Rep. Jamaal Bowman stated.