Plans for the construction of Burgaw Hawthorne residential apartment complex are moving ahead. Burgaw town authorities have been granted the projects developer, Hawthorne Residential Acquisitions LLC, rezoning clearance. This will allow the start of pre-construction work at the 16.8 acres project site. The site is situated along the US 117 Bypass South in the county seat of Pender County. The Burgaw Hawthorne residential apartment complex has eight three-story planned buildings. Upon completion, it will be the town’s largest with the size of approximately 12 football fields. It features facilities such as a clubhouse, and a swimming pool, as well as vehicle garages. The town manager, James H. Gantt, stated that the construction of the building units will be dependent on sewage availability for the corridor. He said, “It will take some time before the development can be created. This is because we must, first, install a sewage line. Nevertheless, we have a fantastic chance to ensure that housing is available for individuals who live and work here,” Gantt stated. Mayor Olivia Dawson commented on the Burgaw Hawthorne residential apartment complex project. She said, “Burgaw is still growing, with entrepreneurs creating new enterprises. One of the most visible signals of change, however, is the construction of the town’s largest apartment complex. It has close to 200 living spaces and it will be a terrific addition to the over 4,000-person town. By providing a great housing choice for many, we will be able to accommodate more inhabitants. This will benefit our local businesses. I believe that these initiatives also  contribute to more walkable neighborhoods. Furthermore, they expand development options while maintaining our small-town identity,” Also Read: New FIG HQ to be Developed in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina Hawthorne Residential Partners is located in Greensboro. It operates over 75 buildings in locations across eight states. Apartments and townhouses in the Cape Fear area may be found in Oak Island, Leland, Hampstead, and Wilmington. Burgaw Now creator Richard Johnson and other local officials are working on measures to reinvigorate the community, including planned attractions such as Burgaw Brewing. He feels that one of the issues is a lack of homes.