As the world becomes increasingly aware of pressing environmental issues such as climate change, sustainability and the need for renewable energy sources individuals and businesses are looking for ways to become cleaner and greener in their practices. Combined with ever-increasing governmental regulation, this sentiment is also impacting the construction industry, as increased demand for eco-friendly buildings requires planning and development to take into account its impact on the environment. If you are looking to buy or sell a sustainable commercial property a commercial real estate lawyer can assist you throughout the process. This article will explore some of the ways sustainability is being implemented within the construction industry. According to the UN Environment Global Status report the construction and operation of buildings accounted for 38% of global energy-related CO2 emissions in 2020. Buildings that are designed and constructed in a manner that reduces CO2 emissions and take into account local ecosystems (and the environment at large) require sustainable architectural practices and considerations throughout the entire process of design to construction. Some of the ways lower carbon emissions can be achieved during the construction process include the following: Fitting buildings with equipment that promotes energy efficiency, low waste and low carbon emissions is an essential part of sustainable architectural design. From heating and ventilation to water conservation and electricity generation, equipment that supports sustainable building design while providing comfort, health and function is key. Also known as green building, these are features that are designed to eliminate or reduce the negative impact on the environment and also offer the benefit of lower running costs. Such equipment includes solar photovoltaic panels, geothermal heating and cooling, greywater or blackwater recycling, LED lighting, low-flow plumbing fixtures and CO2 controlled ventilation systems. As this article has outlined, sustainability within construction is an important issue which is becoming increasingly relevant and factored into modern industry practices.