At 250 Mamaroneck Avenue in White Plains, Southern Land Company has begun construction on Juliette, a brand-new luxury apartment complex with 177 units. The project is SLC’s third in New York and first in White Plains. SLC’s $100 million commitment in the neighbourhood includes constructing Juliette as well as financial support for the YMCA of Central and Northern Westchester. Previously, the YMCA was housed in a building that required expensive upkeep in order to be functioning at 250 Mamaroneck Avenue. The YMCA has moved to 148 Hamilton Avenue in White Plains where it will continue to serve the community through a multi-year agreement with SLC. Also Read: Moyer Carriage Lofts Construction Begins at the Historic Moyer Factory Complex Site, New York When finished, Juliette will include 177 market-rate apartment houses that pay respect to the building’s past. This will be done using components from the original YMCA building that once stood on the property. With apartments averaging 1,200 square feet, residents will have a variety of apartment house styles to select from. They include one-, two-, and three-bedroom options. A courtyard area featuring a pool, spa, garden terrace, BBQ grill, outdoor fireplace, lounging area, and bicycle storage will be among the amenities. For Juliette, additional amenities include a pet spa, a bicycle repair shop/work studio, a resident lounge, and a meeting space. Juliette is a community that welcomes inhabitants of all ages looking for a mix of urban and suburban living. It is situated in downtown White Plains close to economic opportunities, educational institutions, healthcare facilities, and recreational interests. The apartment neighbourhood will have access to Grand Central Terminal, JFK, La Guardia, and Newark airports, as well as two Metro-North stations, the Bee-Line, major roads, and the Westchester County Airport. The development will also return the land to the city’s tax rolls and provide about 400 new employment to the neighbourhood. Tim Downey, founder and CEO of SLC, stated, “We are pleased to start the building phase of this project as it means we are one step closer to reinvigorating part of the core of the city.