Plans to renovate the Cardiff Bay train station and build a new station in Butetown have been revealed. Amey Infrastructure Wales Ltd forwarded the proposals to Cardiff Council. The plans revealed that “new electric metro vehicles” would serve both stations. It goes on to say that the work will “improve transportation links” to Loudoun Square and Cardiff Bay. The proposals call for the construction of a new station in Butetown. It would have a new entrance from Bute Street and additional access from Lloyd George Avenue. The proposal also states that it is in response to the Atlantic Wharf master plan. It calls for the construction of a 15,000-capacity arena, a new leisure centre, and a hotel in the area. Councillor Russell Goodway earlier noted that the master plan will “see major improvements to the public realm and public transport networks to the Bay.” Read Also: Project for Dualization of A47 Section between Norwich and Acle in UK, Approved The master plan also includes a transport hub on Pierhead Street. It would serve as a main terminus and interchange for new tram-train services and bus services to Cardiff Bay. However, the planning application states that this would be separate from the suggested station transition. According to the proposed plans, the platforms would be approximately 125m long. It would also include ticket machines and a waiting shelter on each platform. There would be newly stepped and ramped access to Lloyd George Avenue, as well as steps and a lift from the platform level to Bute Street. The current underpass approximately 20m south of Butetown Station would be retained. The underpass would continue providing pedestrian access beneath the railway line. As part of the plans, a new pedestrian route would be built north of Glanhowny Close, with access from Lloyd George Avenue via a ramp, and a route across the track to Bute Street through a ramp in two segments and a staircase down to the street level. The current platforms at Cardiff Bay station would be taken down, and a new entrance from Lloyd George Avenue would be built as part of the plans. According to the planning application, a newly built central platform would end up serving both tracks and be designed to handle visitors to the arena suggested as part of the Atlantic Wharf master plan.