A groundbreaking ceremony has been carried out to mark the official start of the construction of The Lock at Flatirons apartments, a 254-unit multifamily housing in Broomfield’s MidCities District, Colorado. The US$ 80M project is developed by Titan Development, one of Southwest’s largest and most active real estate development and investment firms, and Pivot Development, a vertically integrated real estate development and investment firm focusing on the investment, development, construction and management of class A luxury multifamily communities across the United States. Development plans for The Lock at Flatirons apartments were made public in July 2021, and construction on the housing project commenced last December at a 3.3-acre site within the Interlocken Technology Park, and its delivery date has been set for Q2 of 2024. According to the developers, this multifamily apartment is intended to offer residents a combined experience of the convenient urban lifestyle and the comforts of the suburban lifestyle. Also Read US$ 63M Trailhead Multifamily Project in Fort Worth, Texas, Breaks Ground Located at 460 Flatiron Blvd, The Lock at Flatirons apartments is positioned at a prime location between Denver and Boulder, allowing residents to commute easily between the two cities and also giving them access to employers in close proximity, such as Oracle, Salesforce, Ball Corporation, Vail Resorts, and Century Link.  Several dining options, retail points and entertainment spots are also a short distance away from the property. High-end fixtures and finishes will be used for all units of The Lock at Flatiron apartment building, which will consist of one-, two- and three-bedroom and studio units. Future residents will enjoy several shared amenities which include, the Sky Lounge with an overlooking view of Flatiron, gymnasium/fitness centre, a resort-style pool along with a spa, dog park and dog spa, parking and storage for bicycles, secure access parking and co-working units. Several technology packages will also be available all throughout the building, including the Smart home technology, which will provide better security for the residents. Titan’s Senior V.P, Jose Rogers mentioned that his company was excited about working together with Pivot to bring The Lock at Flatirons Apartments to the Broomfield neighbourhood. Rogers pointed out that this housing project had great potential in Denver, which is among one of the fastest-growing regions in the U.S for high-income renters. He added that the project would help to alleviate the national housing shortage, by providing best-in-class accommodations for those young professionals working in the area and also attract residents of the neighbourhood.