Construction is set to begin within the coming weeks on the Indiana Grand Millennium Center, a US$190 million project that will include a library, medical facility, hotel, apartments, restaurants and eventually an event centre. Also Read: Terre Haute Convention Center in Indiana to be Opened in Coming Days The project is situated on 64 acres of property east of Westfield Boulevard on 169th Street/David Brown Drive to the south and is intended to become a great live-work-play destination in the rapidly developing city’s core once completed. The city intends to break construction later this year on a $17.7 million, 45,000-square-foot Westfield-Washington Public Library on the northeast intersection of Park Street and Westfield Boulevard. It is scheduled to open in the latter part of 2023. NexCore Group, located in Colorado, intends to develop a 60,000- to a 100,000-square-foot medical office building at Grand Millennium. According to Nedra Moran, whose Indianapolis-based organization Healthcare4Tomorrow worked on locating the hospital at Grand Millennium, it might break ground this year. According to authorities, the $25 million structure will house the Westfield Ambulatory Surgery Center and will include services like cardiology, OB/GYN, podiatry, and interventional radiology. The second phase of the project will include a 2,500-seat event and conference centre on the site’s southern end. If everything goes as planned, Dalton estimates it will be operational by 2026. Mayor Andy Cook described the Grand Millennium Center as “a critical component of the broader strategy” for downtown Westfield adding that it would be carefully developed. “We’re highly interested in being distinctive. We’re not in a rush to have everything done tomorrow. I truly believe the library will start off a lot of great things there, and Grand Millennium has certainly had a role in that,” said Westfield City Council member Scott Willis. “Obviously, the Westfield region is absolutely booming and developing at a breakneck pace. They have very few health-care facilities, so we decided it was the greatest option because we would be supplying full-time personnel,” she remarked.