As the summer season is approaching, it is essential to ensure that your air conditioning system is up and running to help you beat the heat. Since your AC wasn’t running in the fall and winter, there may be dust formations in filters, debris in the condenser, a damaged air conditioning unit, and the need for several repairs to be made. Here are four significant signs that can indicate that you need to repair your air conditioner: An air conditioner is supposed to keep your space cool and comfortable in the heat. If your air conditioner is blowing out warm air instead of cold air, it may signify that the air conditioner needs repair or replacement. In such a case, you will have to contact an HVAC technician to thoroughly check your air conditioning system. If something is blocking your home’s ductwork, your air conditioner might have a lower airflow than usual which will mean your air conditioner needs repair. Poor airflow is caused by either clogged air filters full of debris or a broken part like the motor in your air conditioning system. If you observe poor airflow from your AC, it probably needs to be checked. If the poor airflow has been a consistent problem with your air conditioning system, you may also purchase an energy-recovery ventilator. It can help replace the stale air with fresh air each time your air conditioning system is cycled. Your air conditioner may produce condensation while operating as the system relies on refrigerants to give out fresh and cool air. This liquid formation is only healthy until it does not accumulate in one place or leak into your house. If you see pooled water near your AC unit, it may signify that your air conditioner needs repair. Your cooling system will be adversely affected by these water leaks as well. The accumulated moisture may be water from a blocked or broken tube that disposes of the condensation and leads to water accumulation in one place. You should immediately contact your HVAC repair professionals to deal with the leakages and damages. An air conditioner should operate quietly. If you notice unusually loud sounds coming from your AC unit, it may signify a faulty motor or a problem with internal wiring. These sounds can include anything like grinding, squealing, or grating. In such cases, it is recommended that you contact experts as soon as possible to identify and fix the problem. If you observe high electricity bills, your air conditioner may be consuming an abnormally high amount of energy due to some internal problem. An inefficient air conditioning unit uses more power to reach the ideal room temperature, which increases energy consumption. This inefficiency may be a result of used-up filers, debris, or a problem in the internal wiring of the device. In such a case, getting your unit checked by an expert for required repairs is advisable. The average lifespan of an air conditioner is usually no more than a decade, but you can reduce wear and tear damage in your air conditioner by looking for these signs and getting it repaired immediately. If your air conditioning unit has been working for over ten years and keeps requiring increasing repairs, it might be better to replace the old unit with a new one.