Central luxury mixed-use project in New Cairo, Egypt, has been launched. This is the latest and 50th real estate project by Saudi Egyptian Developers (SED). It builds on the company’s track record of successful real estate development projects. SED has been active for almost 50 years and has built some of the country’s largest real estate developments. The most recent integrated luxury mixed-use project, Central, caters to businessmen, shopaholics, as well as those seeking entertainment and fun. It puts together the most well-known brands and the best international restaurants under one roof. Central luxury mixed-use project in New Cairo is being developed on 21 acres piece of land. It has a proposed built up area of over 160,000 square meters. This include number of commercial and administrative units of different sizes. The administrative units are between 114 and 490 square meters in size. They are also supported by cutting-edge technological infrastructure, as well as the most recent global smart technology. Also Read: Construction Underway of New Prison Complex in Sinai, Northeast Egypt Furthermore, the project has a three-story underground parking structure that covers the entire built up area. The parking area will help accommodate as many visitors, workers, and owners as possible. The Central luxury mixed-use project in New Cairo site is situated in one of New Cairo’s most strategic areas. It currently serves more than one million people. Upon completion, it is expected to serve 6 million people by 2030. This is according to the most recent market research conducted by SED. The company conducted the research in a bid to ensure the project’s feasibility and practicality. Developing iconic and cutting-edge projects is a priority for SED. Because of this, the company is always eager to partner with the biggest, and most experienced international project consultants. For the Central luxury mixed-use project in New Cairo the company chose WATG as its international design consultant. In addition, SED chose RMC as its local design consultant, Gleeds as its cost consultant and ICE as its traffic consultant. SAVILLS is the projects market research and retail consultant, while DECIPHER is the leasing consultant. The project’s construction work is anticipated to be completed in about four years.