Health and safety have long been taken seriously within the construction and landscaping industry, with businesses well aware of the potential dangers on sites. Taking precautions is second nature, with protective wear issued as a standard for workers to reduce the risk of injury. Regular checks of equipment to ensure their safety are also recommended, and there are laws to protect anyone employed in the industry – it is your responsibility to provide safe working conditions for all employees. Despite following government laws and regulations and however safe your working environment is, there is still the potential for accidents, which is why taking out a landscaping insurance policy is a must. Below are five reasons your business needs landscaping insurance. Taking out landscaping insurance shows that you are a serious outfit and tells clients you are professional. By having a suitable insurance policy, you will attract new customers as it sends the message that you are trustworthy and compliant. It also helps your company stand out from others in the field. No one likes to think of worst-case scenarios, but insurance is there for exactly that. Hopefully, you will never need to claim on your policy, but knowing you are covered can give your business security and peace of mind. When taking out your policy, be sure to ask about the claims process, so you are aware of the procedure should you need to put in a claim. Staff safety will be a top priority for any employer as no one wants a member of staff to be injured during work hours. However, working within the landscaping industry involves heavy lifting and using power tools, so accidents can happen to even the most careful of people. By taking out insurance you are showing your employees that you care about their welfare while also protecting your business from possible unexpected costs associated with employee injury or sick leave. Thankfully it is rare for legal action to be taken against anyone in the industry, but it is better to be safe than sorry. For many small businesses, it would be impossible to pay for legal representation without insurance, so cover yourself against expensive legal costs by taking out a full policy. Customers are at the center of any business – you couldn’t operate without them! As a landscaper, you will be working on other people’s property, so insurance covering accidental damage is a must to reassure both yourself and your clients. Policies cover everything from damaged plants to broken windows, so take the time to read your policy – comprehensive cover is a necessity. Taking out a landscaping insurance policy is the most sensible decision you can make as the owner of a small gardening business. It may be tempting to cut corners to reduce your outlay but considering the above scenarios, can you afford to be without cover? Before taking out a policy, make sure it covers your business needs. Choose the most comprehensive policy to reduce the likelihood of nasty surprises. Be sure to thoroughly read any paperwork before signing and if you are unsure of any wording, seek legal advice so you can be confident that you know what you are agreeing to. Only use regulated providers, so you know that they will be reliable in your time of need.