A US$ 90M partnership agreement has been signed for the Theory Interlock complex, a 671-bed student accommodation project in Georgia. The agreement was signed between Blue Vista Capital Management, LLC and StepStone Real Estate. Blue Vista is a leading investment management firm helping investors to maximize returns through best-in-class real estate equity and credit strategies across the risk-return spectrum. StepStone on the other hand is a commercial real estate company providing asset, real estate advisory and property management services. The Theory Interlock complex will provide completely furnished one, two, three, four, and five-bedroom apartments. There will be private bedrooms, bathrooms, in-unit laundry, and 55-inch smart TVs. Some apartments will also include island kitchens and private balconies. A study room, lounge, clubroom, rooftop pool, coffee bar, and fitness centre will be included. There will also be package lockers, private study laboratories, and collaboration space. Two courtyards will also be available in the community. PeakMade Real Estate, an affiliate student housing management firm of Blue Vista, is working on the project alongside SJ Collins Enterprises. The latter is a privately held, commercial real estate and retail development firm. It has acquired and developed more than 50 retail, mixed-use, multi-family and office projects throughout the continental United States. Also Read: Construction begins at Bryn House mixed-use community, Georgia The Theory Interlock complex project implementation is scheduled to be finished in the summer of 2023. The 671-bed Georgia student accommodation project targets Georgia Tech students. According to Jason Schwartz, managing principal and co-head of Blue Vista’s Equity Group, the number of students attending the Tech will continue to steadily increase, and Theory Interlock will cater to those seeking top-notch housing. A second phase of the Theory Interlock project is reportedly in the cards. This will be a significant mixed-use complex and it will be built in Atlanta. It will include 161 guest rooms, 349 luxury apartments, 18 townhouses, 70 single-family homes, and 105,000 square feet of retail and restaurant space when finished. It will also have 200,000 square feet of technology-focused office space.