The construction of a 31-story AER apartment tower in downtown Tampa, Florida has begun following a groundbreaking ceremony held by American Land Ventures and Gazit Horizons, a leading global real estate company focused on ownership, development, and management of mixed-use income-producing properties in densely populated urban cities. According to the developers, this luxury apartment project which is being developed in the River Arts District will implement designs focused on the health and wellness of the future residents. Mayor Jane Castor of Tampa commended the progress on the AER apartment tower, which she said has been a long time coming. The Mayor welcomed the new development at the groundbreaking event, stating that this new location would provide unparalleled walkability among the booming River Arts District in Tampa. The AER apartment tower will feature 334-units, with a mix of one, two, and three-bedroom units, and up to 11 distinctive studio apartments, all designed to match the Downtown Tampa, luxury rental market demand and standards. The development will also include about 13,688 square feet of ground-level retail space, street-level shops and 514 parking spaces. Also Read Eden House apartment tower in Nashville to break ground The AER apartment tower units will all be furnished on the inside, with several high-end amenities which include upgraded stainless steel appliances, custom designer cabinetry, porcelain tile, 9-to-10-foot ceilings, quartz countertops, oversized floor-to-ceiling sliding glass doors, high-speed internet wiring and open balconies. Construction is expected to be completed by the spring of 2024, with Coastal Construction serving as the general contractor for the project. The President of Central and North Florida for Coastal Construction, Sean DeMartino, also gave more insights on the AER apartment tower, which he said offers a wide appeal from professional Millennials to Baby Boomers. He added that the unit sizes were much larger, and designed to offer residents a sophisticated level of finish and service, for both the interior and exterior of each apartment unit. The American Land Ventures President, Granvil Tracy, pointed out that the location of the AER apartment tower was like no other in Tampa, providing a scenic view of the city and river, and allowing residents to enjoy the scenery while taking a Riverwalk stroll or through the open balcony; it also gives access to nearby attractions around the property such as the Straz Center located right across the building, the Glazer Children’s Museum, Tampa Museum of Art, Tampa Riverwalk and Curtis Hixon Waterfront Park.