Construction of Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA)’s new ultramodern head office is currently underway. The construction works began in January 2022 with Devtraco Builders Limited as the contractor. The company is one of the West African country’s leading real estate developers, serving the middle-income buyer segment. It was selected to carry out the works after winning a competitive tender of about GH491 million. After bagging the contract, the company received a mobilization fee of about GH74.36 million. This paved the way for the commencement of the Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA)’s new ultramodern head office construction process. The office is scheduled to be completed within 2 years. Mr Sidney Quaye, the Project Manager, claimed that the project’s work was smoothly progressing and would meet the two-year timeline. The decision to establish the organization’s new ultramodern head office was conceived by GRA’s Board and Management in a bid to deal with the office accommodation requirements. It was initially planned to be situated at the Airport Area in Accra, opposite the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Regional Integration. Also Read: Project for Construction of 32 TVET Centers in Ghana to Commence Soon It was, however, relocated to Kanda, which is the current site, in line with a decision made by the government to have the Ministry of Finance’s key agencies in one location, which is to be referred to as the national financial enclave. Upon completion, the new GRA’s head office complex is expected to boast 13,725 square meters of seven-storey twin towers. It will have enough space to house all the headquarters staff members, currently based in the existing office at the ministry and other six rental buildings in Accra. Noteworthy, the facility is designed to provide the revenue mobilization workers and visitors with an experience of space, a friendly working environment, and an ample car park. It will also save the organization more than GH4 million in rent annually for the head office.