Plans for the Cambridge North project have been submitted by The Chesterton Partnership. The former railroad sidings next to Cambridge North Railway Station are the site of this substantial mixed-use project. DB Cargo, Brookgate, and Network Rail are the development partners. The partnership intends to construct 425 houses on the 17-hectare brownfield site. A 600,000 square feet of office, laboratory, and retail space is also in the plans. Over 2,000 construction jobs are expected to be generated by the Cambridge North project over a five-year construction period. The design was created by Make and Acme. A 217-bed Novotel will open in May 2021, being part of the already underway plans to transform the area. One Cambridge Square, a second structure with offices above and retail space on the ground floor, will debut in 2023. “The next stage of the regeneration of the vacant land surrounding the new Cambridge North railway station will create an amazing community,” said Sven Topel, CEO of Brookgate. As a result, not only the people who live and work there but also visitors and neighbours will enjoy it. Read Also: Project for Dualization of A47 Section between Norwich and Acle in UK, Approved The plans will provide a range of recreational and community facilities in addition to meeting the local demand for high-quality homes and workplaces. To revitalize a run-down area, public open spaces will also be built. “This development will build a community that responds to climate change and environmental challenges and is sustainable, biodiverse, and inclusive.” A range of tenures will be offered in the housing planned. Consequently, it will include affordable rent, shared ownership, and 1-, 2-, and 3-bedroom homes for sale. The 155 private homes for sale will include 40 per cent affordable housing. New public areas, like Chesterton Gardens in the centre of the residential district, will create a neighbourhood courtyard with play structures for kids, seating, and abundant landscaping to encourage use by all. Chesterton Square will indeed provide an active public space and supporting amenities for people to enjoy.