Affinity Living’s Great Ancoats Street residential building project has received approval from the City Council’s planning committee. Affinity Living, the applicant, lowered the height of the building from 34 to 33 stories after the committee rejected it by a vote of five to four last month. The vote came despite planning officers’ recommendations for approval on the grounds that it was one storey too high. In Port Street, Piccadilly ward, the revised plan will now offer 481 homes in addition to commercial space, down from 485 in the original plan. After being rejected twice before by council members, it was finally approved on the third attempt. Because of the size, scope, and impact on nearby conservation areas, it was unsuccessful the first time around. The site can now support a building with parts 33, 11, 9, and 7 stories. After two rounds of notification, 211 letters of opposition had been submitted, as opposed to 34 letters of support. The applicant later revised the plan and lowered the height to 33 storeys in order to fully comply with the Piccadilly Basin SRF, according to notes in today’s planning documents. Officers are unable to offer a potential defense in light of this. Read Also: Construction of Palladium East Berry Street residential community in Texas begins Residents’ representative Zoe Mills raised objections before the committee, pleading with council members to “be brave, we value your support.” Please keep our neighborhood and the locals safe. In response, the applicant’s representative informed the committee that, “at considerable cost,” they had reduced the height of the tower after listening to and positively responding to the committee’s concerns last month. Dave Roscoe, a planning officer, informed the committee that there were no new concerns with the application that had not already been brought up or discussed. The size of the development, according to Cllr. Jon-Connor Lyons, would compromise the Northern Quarter’s social and economic identity. Additionally, Cllr. John Leech declared he would oppose the application because the development did not include enough affordable housing. But the application was approved with seven votes, three against, and one abstention. The CEO of Select Property Group, Adam Price, who owns Affinity Living, stated: “Select Property has established an outstanding reputation for providing some of the city’s best build-to-rent housing, including Embankment West, home to Laurence Place and Exchange Point.