The large-scale canal side development projection UK is set to be carried out by St. Modwen Homes in collaboration with Stroud District Council. Initial construction will transform the former industrial site into a new waterside community. It will have more than 150 new sustainable homes, 30% of which will be affordable housing. The project will begin next month. The canal side development project will have public spaces, commercial, retail, leisure, community, and business facilities. Further, the development will also include the restoration of the canal basin that was filled in after World War II. Read Also: Construction financing secured for Advantis Station, a Flagler Village multifamily development Council leader Catherine Braun said, “This is an interesting and important low carbon project for Brimscombe, the Golden Valley, and the wider district.” According to our 2030 strategy for a more sustainable future, “the developer will adhere to Building with Nature standards.” Natalie Bennett, the deputy council leader, continued, “We want this development to be at the center of Brimscombe.” She spoke. It “should and will” create a community that is sustainable for coming generations. “Our vision for ‘an exemplar and sustainable community, integrated with the existing surroundings’ is really taking shape now. We anticipate seeing all the hard work by so many pay off,” said Ward Councillor Beki Aldam. I’m interested in attending the upcoming public meeting and seeing how the project’s developer will interact with our neighborhood going forward. St. Modwen Homes’ regional managing director for the South region, Jeremy Attwater, said: “This is a fantastic project, and we are thrilled to have been chosen to advance it. We see so much potential to build something truly unique for the neighborhood and the surrounding area, even though the site is a brownfield. “We are keen to ensure the canal side development project is sympathetic to its surroundings. Additionally, we will retain the heritage buildings, including the listed stone-built Port Mill and Salt Warehouse,” the statement reads. We have extensive knowledge of the neighborhood and the surrounding region. Thus, we’ll make sure local labor is used throughout the development.