The 50-story Santander Tower in Dallas, Texas, is set to be converted into apartment units by the owner, Woods Capital. Adolfson & Peterson Construction (AP) has been contracted to remodel the historic office building located downtown at 1601 Elm St. Originally it was named the Thanksgiving Tower and ranked as the second tallest building when it first opened in 1982. At present, it’s still among the city’s top 10 tallest towers. Santander Tower, which was renamed after the developer’s main tenant in 2020, is a shiny, glassy monolith opposite the Thanks-Giving Square. On the top two floors, the tower houses a two-story hotel named The Guild, which charges as high as $139 to $198 a night; including a helipad as well. Going forward, the developers intend to transform the available 1.4 million-square-foot office space into 288 residential units. Also Read Lyra Residential Tower to be Developed in Boston, Massachusetts AP will partner with Mintwood Real Estate, a Dallas-based developer, on the Santander Tower renovation project. This is coming five years after the previous renovation, which was worth over $40 million. At that time, upgrades were made on all building systems, common areas, lobby, and plaza. An executive fitness center was also included in the development. Design plans for the apartment units at the Santander Tower will consist of one- and two-bedroom unit floor plans. Other amenities planned for the development include a swimming pool, fitness center, common areas, meeting space, dog park, and kitchen. Specifically, these renovations will take place on the first floor, including floors 18-25 and 37-39. Construction is expected to begin by summer 2022. Mintwood’s CEO, Katy Slade said the conversion of the high-rise office floors to residences would provide much-needed housing in Dallas. Furthermore, she also stated that the featured apartments at the Santander Tower would come with some nice views as well. Woods Capital’s founder, Jonas Woods was also in agreement that Santander Tower would bring more housing options to Dallas. He mentioned that the office-to-residential conversion would create a more vibrant, mixed-use neighborhood. Following this cause of action will enable them to meet the growing demand caused by migration to the area.