Please enable JavaScript Digitalization affects all areas of our lives. And it will only continue to develop further. And this is not something terrible. Digital transformation helps remove paperwork and some manual work to automate routine work. Digitalization is deeply based on new technological innovations. His right hands are digital solutions and mobile devices. According to the Statista website, global spending on digital transformation is projected to reach $2.8 trillion by 2025. Many areas of our lives need digitalization, such as healthcare, transportation, aviation, retail, and financial technology, use digitalization and enjoy the practical and relevant benefits it brings. With the help of software suites and mobile applications, companies achieve complete transparency of their processes, improved communication and collaboration, precise quality control and risk assessment, and, most importantly, better results. The construction industry is no exception and is also ready to embrace digitalization. Today, less than 6% of construction companies fully utilize digital planning tools, with 93% of industry participants agreeing that digitalization is already needed. Construction companies that do not evolve with technology may be left behind. However, due to ongoing challenges, the industry is plodding to adopt technology and technological innovation. The construction industry is quite specific. There is a lot of machinery and equipment involved, materials scattered all over the place, and field workers running back and forth looking for the boss to get their assignments. Numerous processes and activities occur simultaneously, while many assets and workers remain underused. New ways of working and thinking are needed here. Creating a convenient mobile application for a construction company will instantly make managing such a company more convenient. They are always at hand and always in touch. Everyone has smartphones, from managers to field workers. These widely used devices have the potential to revolutionize the construction industry as every worker is already equipped with a connected and compatible device. It remains only to find a company for custom mobile app development, and the job is done. Every minute saved is a minute earned. Therefore, there is no need to explain how vital digitalization is for such a monumental and solid area as construction. Forbes notes that guiding the construction industry or any other sector towards digitalization and a wiser and stronger future can be done by asking “how” questions. How are things today? How would the proposed feature best serve the client? How should it communicate internally and externally to ensure it’s being used? And there is no doubt that mobile applications will play a vital role in this digitalization. After all, it is easy to organize the entire construction process with them. And it will not be difficult for the participants in this process to accept the new conditions of the game. After all, in the end, digitalization happens to us all at every step. Author’s bio: Anastasiia Lastovetska is a technology writer at MLSDev, a software development company that builds web & mobile app solutions from scratch. She researches the area of technology to create great content about app development, UX/UI design, tech & business consulting. 