Following the completion of the safety study by EDF from France, Westinghouse from the United States, and Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power (KHNP) – the Czech Republic’s Ministry of Industry and Trade has formally given its clearance for the new nuclear power plant at Dukovany. Bidders have until November this year to submit their initial proposals, with EZ anticipating that it will have analyzed the offers and presented its report for government permission in time for contract finalization in 2024. “The primary goal is to complete a safe and cost-effective project within the time and stipulated budget. Of course, the purpose of the tender is to select the best contractor and have a quality and useful contract,” said Daniel Bene, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of EZ. Also Read: Olkiluoto Nuclear Power Plant Unit 3 Project Updates, Finland Following its signature, the project paperwork will be thoroughly produced in order to reduce the complications associated with some overseas projects. I feel that the 2036 start date for the next unit’s test operation is feasible,” concluded the EZ CEO. The new nuclear plant at Dukovany will be erected close to the existing power plant, the first unit of which was inaugurated in 1985. As per a law approved last year in September by a large majority in the Chamber of Deputies, the electricity produced by the New Nuclear Power Plant at Dukovany will be purchased by a state-owned company at a fixed rate for at least 30 years, with the option to extend. The power will be resold on the wholesale market, and any profit or loss will be reflected in power bill adjustments, however, the government has stated that any additional costs will be limited. The law is called Lex Dukovany after the power plant location where the new construction is planned. In addition to consistent electricity supplies, Lex Dukovany explains, nuclear power plants also enable the provision of stable heat supplies, which is another advantage due to the huge central heat supply infrastructure in the Czech Republic. As a result of its potential to offer low-carbon, steady, and cheap electricity supply, nuclear energy has been selected as the major means of providing energy security in the Czech Republic in the context of reaching the goal of a climate-neutral EU by 2050.