The construction of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, the Nigerian section of the Trans-West African Coastal Highway that connects Lagos in Nigeria with Dakar in Senegal is reportedly making good progress and well on schedule. This came to light following a recent site visit by Adedamola Kuti, the Director of Federal Highways in South West, to inspect the amount of work that has been done on section 3 of the expressway, which runs from Agbara to Seme. According to Kuti, approximately 17 kilometers of the Badagry-bound lane have been constructed at various sections, with plans in place to speed up development on the remaining sections. The Lagos-Badagry Expressway project is partly funded by the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) through a slightly over US$ 36M tax credit, as part of the ongoing Federal Government’s Tax Credit scheme. Speaking during the inspection of the projects section 3, the Director of Federal Highways in South West explained that the NNPC funds gave the Lagos-Badagry Expressway project a boost and allowed them to pay off pending bills. Kuti expressed optimism that the project, the construction of which began between 2020 and 2021 approximately 2 years after the construction contract was awarded,  could be over 80% complete in a year with continued government funding. Reported earlier Oct 2014 The Federal Government will carry out reconstruction and expansion of Lagos-Badagry Expressway road, the minister of Works, Mr. Mike Onolememen, has said. The Minister revealed this while making a presentation on work undertaken on Oshodi-Apapa Expressway by Julius Berger Plc. The presentation was undertaken at the company’s office complex in Ijora. The Minister said the government would soon get into the construction stage, and that five other ECOWAS member countries would be involved. He said the design of the new project was under development, and the design incorporates other member states. The minister said that the reconstruction and expansion of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway would best be undertaken through regional efforts. “We will definitely get into the construction stage; at that time, all the challenges the Lagos State Government is having on that road will be a thing of the past because we will construct that road,“ he said. He directed Julius Berger to complete rehabilitation of Apapa/Oshodi Expressway in the next eight weeks, adding that the company should take remedial works into consideration. He said that a rigid pavement would be used in the reconstruction of this road, so it can take more load capacity. The reconstruction and expansion of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway road will involve expanding it from four to 10 lanes as planned in 2009. Construction works involve setting up a light rail line and a Bus Rapid Transit corridor, and this will improve tourism and economic activities. Jul 2015 The State Government of Lagos has plans to construct a 10 lane Lagos-Badagry expressway from the Ikorodu axis in Lagos passing through the Itoikin, Epe to Ijebu Ode in Ogun State. This was confirmed by the State Governor of Lagos, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode. According to the State Government, more focus has been shifted towards the State infrastructural development. This includes plans to put up an International Airport in Epe along with an Export Processing Zone EPZ in Lekki port and Lekki Deep Seaport. In a statement, Governor Ambode argued that in between the Oshodi and the Murtala Mohammed International Airport there is no track rail constructed to connect the two destinations and he urges not the situation to happen to the proposed International Airport at Epe. On completion of the Lagos-Badagry expressway, it will be opened for the operation to the rescue of the region’s business hubs. However, there are plans to organize a summit with the sector stakeholders to form a union that will explore the potentials that abound in the state. In this regard, an overseas office under the governor’s office will be put up to look after the state’s affairs and increase the GDP of Lagos as well as create employment opportunities for the state’s residents. Feb 2019 The government of Nigeria has begun rehabilitation, reconstruction, and expansion work on the Agbara-Seme Border section of Lagos-Badagry Expressway. Director Highways, South West, Mr. Funsho Adebiyi confirmed the reports and said that the government will be reconstructing, rehabilitating, and expanding various sections of the highway and that the work was from Agbara to Badagry border post while Badagry to Seme border would be rehabilitated. He further added that construction plants and materials have also been mobilized to some spots between Agbara and Badagry by CGC Nigeria Ltd, the contractors on the project, and the quality construction materials which will be used will help to ensure the durability of the road. “The contractor moved to site around November last year but because of the high traffic for the Christmas season, he was asked to make emergency repairs to make the road motorable. Now he is back on-site on full construction works, the survey works, geotechnical investigations have all been completed. So, the actual construction work has now started,” said Mr. Adebiyi. Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) was going to work on the section between Okokomaiko to Agbara. Mr. Adebiyi affirmed that procurement processes had already begun towards the award of the contract. “This project is part of a major project from Lagos to Abidjan and that the ministry was doing its best to speed up construction on the Lagos side,’’ added the Federal Controller of Works in Lagos, Mr. Adedamola Kuti. The project which is due to be complete in 36 months, will help expand the real estate of the axis and the tourism potential of the Badagry axis. The economic benefit of the project will be really great since it will lead to a lot of tertiary institutions along the corridor of this project. Jul 2019 Construction works on Lagos- Badagry Expressway project has begun with the flag-off of the project by Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo. Speaking during the ceremony, Deputy Governor Dr. Obafemi Hamzat who represented the Governor said that the contractor, Chinese Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC) was recalled to the site to commence work. Also Read: Ghana approves US $285m for road projects A section of the 60-kilometer expressway road from Agboju, a suburb of Lagos to the Trade Fair Complex will be completed before the end of the year while the other stretch to Badagry will be rehabilitated with palliative measures to make it motorable to the public. The construction work will now begin at the third section- Agboju to Trade Fair Complex- and it is expected to last for one year. Sections 1 and 2 of the expressway- from Eric Moore to Agboju have been completed. Dr. Obafemi lauded the cooperation between the Federal Government and the state government, saying the Federal Road Emergency Maintenance Agency (FERMA) was currently rehabilitating the Igboelerin section to Agbara road while the Federal Ministry of Works was building a six-lane road from Agbara to Seme Border. He further added that the project will bring relief to millions of Lagosians who live on the axis considered as an international route and end the neglect and hardship suffered daily by residents of that part of the metropolis, where traffic snarl, robbery, and deaths have become a daily experience. He said the project, which is a transit-oriented development, would open up the area for economic activities and real estate, adding that it would complement the 13 stations of the Blue Line Rail Project and 10-lane Lagos-Badagry Express road. Feb 2021 The Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA), an agency set up for the monitoring and maintenance of all federal roads in Nigeria, has announced that the ongoing rehabilitation works of a section of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway are currently 88 percent complete. According to Mr. Rufus Onimisi, FERMA South West 2 Zonal Coordinator, the project contractors (Wizchino Engineering Ltd) are fast-tracking the implementation of the project which spans from Igboelerin to Agbara. “The project contractors are working day and night in order to complete the 24 kilometers project ahead of schedule, which was postponed to April this year from November last year following the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic,” explained the FERMA South West 2 Zonal Coordinator. “To date, we have done the drainage works, curb works, access culverts, and work on the main carriageway. This comprises of scarification, stone base, binder and wearing course as well as desilting works and desilting of silted drainages” says Mr. Onimisi. “Drainage works done so far is about 1.6 kilometers. The portion we are working on is 12 kilometers on each lane, so for the two carriageways, that’s a total of 24 kilometers.  The asphalting works we have done so far on the other hand are about 11 kilometers on each lane, so basically we have completed asphalting a total of 22 kilometers out of the entire 24 kilometers of the road.” “Considering the rate at which the rehabilitation works are being carried out, I am certain that by the end of March we should be completely done with the project,” elaborated FERMA South West 2 Zonal Coordinator. The Lagos-Badagry Expressway, a major gateway connecting Nigeria and neighboring West African countries, was conceptualized back in 2009 by the Babatunde Fashola administration in Lagos State to ease traffic in the region and upgrade the infrastructure. Jul 2021 While responding to recent complaints about the hardship faced by the Lagos-Badagry Expressway users, Mrs. Aramide Adeyoye, the special adviser for the Lagos State Ministry of Works and Infrastructure, promised that the project will be delivered before the end of December 2021. According to Mrs. Adeyoye, the Agboju to Tradefair segment of the road was completed last year, and the contractors have already completed the construction of the 10 lanes from Mile 2 to Volks, and the Lagos bound service lane from Mile 2 to Okokomaiko. The scope of the works, she said, included the provision of lay-bys for buses and service ducts, the construction of pedestrian bridges, BRT Bus stops, park & ride and BRT depots, tolled link interchanges, flyovers and toll plazas, road marking, and installation of road signs and traffic lights as well as landscaping works. She also urged all stakeholders to continue working with the contractor, Chinese Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC), to achieve the project’s timely completion, pledging that the completed stretch of the road would be available to vehicle traffic immediately. Mr. Jiang Yaowu, the project manager said that the challenges slowing down construction works include high traffic volume and inflation. According to him, at least 26,000 vehicles use the road on a daily basis and this has contributed to safety and security challenges on the project site. He however assured that the project would be completed in December and appealed for the patience of motorists, adding that temporary routes had been created to ease traffic gridlock. The Eric Moore to Okokomaiko section comprises two toll lanes, two service lanes, one Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) lane, a central reserve for two-way light Rail Mass Transit, and other support infrastructures. Mrs. Adeyoye said that its completion would ease the movement of human and material goods on the international highway and also serve as a boost to international trade. The State Government of Lagos has plans to construct a 10 lane Lagos-Badagry expressway in Nigeria  Reconstruction and expansion of Lagos-Badagry Expressway begins  Nigeria begins construction of Lagos-Badagry Expressway project  Lagos-Badagry Expressway rehabilitation works in Nigeria, 88% complete  Lagos-Badagry Expressway Project to be delivered before December 2021  