The implementation of the Wire Park mixed-use development project in Athens, Georgia, which will comprise the construction of 130 residential apartments as well as 225,000 square feet of commercial, office, and retail space, has begun. Sited on a 66-acre piece of land just about an hour east of downtown Atlanta, the project which will be one of the major economic development initiatives in Oconee County’s recent history producing at least 300 employment opportunities, will also involve the development of an extensive public greenspace. Also Read: Construction begins on High Street Perimeter Mall in Dunwoody, Georgia Wire Park, the company behind the adaptive reuse of the former wire-manufacturing complex, just announced its newest tenants. These tenants include the first permitted brewery in Oconee County, as well as the first tenants for The Grid at Wire Park, the area’s first food hall. Three Atlanta-based companies will also enter into the Athens market at Wire Park. These companies will be joining previously announced tenants such as an athletic shoe store, a gym, a hair salon, and a 28,710 square-foot indoor baseball and softball training facility. The Oconee County Library will also have a new home on the property. More than 20 enterprises and organizations will set up shop at Wire Park in total. Gibbs Capital, a Watkinsville, Ga.-based real estate development firm, is in charge of the development and construction. The design architect and architect of record are Athens’ E+E Architecture, led by lead architect Chris Evens. The MEP engineer is Chris Esslinger of Westside Engineering, while the structural engineer is Baku Patel of Palmer Engineering Company. “Our team envisions Wire Park Mixed-Use Development as a gathering place for the community, and this newest set of announcements illustrates the positive momentum for this transformative project. From a diverse range of restaurants to a bevy of shops and salons, the development is positioned to be a cultural and economic pillar for Oconee County for many years to come,” Jordan Price, Wire Park’s director of operations, said in a statement.