A US$ 4bn construction upgrade program for the 1.3 million square foot Terminal B LaGuardia Airport project is approaching its completion, with over 90% of the work done. This milestone was celebrated recently at a ribbon-cutting event attended by the New York Governor Kathy Hochu, Mayor Eric Adams, the Port Authority Executive Director Rick Cotton, Queens Borough President Donovan Richards, and other local officials. The construction on the Terminal B LaGuardia Airport project, which commenced six years ago was tagged as one of the largest public-private partnerships in America’s history, and it’s being developed through the collaborative efforts of The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ) and LaGuardia Gateway Partners. Also Read The US$14.5 billion Los Angeles Airport (LAX) Modernization Project The Terminal B LaGuardia Airport project progressed in several phases over the years, and the construction involved the replacement of the original four-concourse facility with two new concourses, known as the Western and Eastern Concourses. The Arrivals and Departures Halls leading to each concourse were also connected by two pedestrian sky bridges spanning 482 ft long and 60ft above the ground. The design of these bridges adds an extra 2 miles of taxiway space to the airport, which makes room for an aircraft to pass underneath the bridges. The Eastern concourse of the Terminal B LaGuardia Airport project debuted in December 2018. This section features 18 out of Terminal B’s 35 gates, along with a greenery park, a kid’s play area, and airline clubs. The facility offers gate seating areas with numerous outlets for electronic devices and well-designed restrooms. It also provides several retail components and dining options which include Shake Schack, NYC favorites FAO Schwarz, Irving Farm Coffee, and McNally Jackson Booksellers. The Western concourse of the Terminal B LaGuardia Airport project was launched in two phases. Phase I was in August 2020, while Phase II opened last December. This section of the facility is made up of 17 gates, 12 of which are in operation. It also features passenger amenities such as a park area with benches and greenery, a play area for kids, and a seating area with many outlets for electronic devices. The retail and dining options available in this section include NYC favorites Beechers and Sweetleaf, and W.H. Smith, featuring Amazon’s ‘Just Walk Out technology. According to Rick Cotton, renovations are still in progress at other sections of the LaGuardia Airport. He mentioned that Terminal C is also undergoing construction work worth $4 billion and it’s expected to be completed by spring 2022. Reported earlier Jun 2020 LaGuardia Airport in New York, US has opened Terminal B Arrivals and Departures Hall (Headhouse). The new Headhouse is the central entry point for travelers flying out of Terminal B, with seamless integration to passenger concourses and gates, the new parking garage, and the Central Hall that connects to Terminal C and the planned future AirTrain. The building, which spans four levels, will transform the customer experience and streamline airport operations, unimaginable with the old facility. The new Headhouse features an open floor plan with 60-foot tall ceilings and a glass façade that floods the 850,000 square foot facility with natural light. The first floor includes a new ground transportation center for arriving passengers, followed by the arrivals hall and baggage claim on level two, and check-in on level three. The fourth-floor features shops, restaurants and other customer amenities, and concourse bridges. Also Read: US $929m APM and BHS tunnels to be constructed at Hong Kong International Airport According to Rick Cotton, Executive Director, Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the opening of the first new Arrivals and Departure Hall is a major milestone in delivering on Governor Cuomo’s vision for a brand new, world-class, 21st century LaGuardia Airport that the region deserves. “We thank the contractor Skanska-Walsh, subcontractors, and union construction workers who worked through the pandemic to deliver this extraordinary building on time and on budget. Today’s opening should be a shining symbol of the region’s potential for a strong economic recovery with the vitality of New York before COVID-19,” he added. The redevelopment at one of the nation’s busiest airports began in 2016 and is the largest public-private-partnership (P3) in U.S. aviation history. Aug 2020 Seven new gates have been opened in the LaGuardia Airport Terminal B Western Concourse (Concourse A North), the latest achievement towards the completion of the LaGuardia Airport Terminal B redevelopment. Servicing American Airlines, the seven new gates within the 250,000 square-foot, four-level, light-filled Western Concourse are now open to the public, one month ahead of schedule. Customers will experience soaring 55-foot high ceilings and floor-to-ceiling windows that allow for ample natural lighting, modern restrooms with carefully selected amenities, and an indoor park with benches, landscaping and trees. Also Read: LaGuardia Airport in New York, US opens Terminal B Headhouse The Terminal B Western Concourse is a near replica of the Eastern Concourse, which opened to the public in December 2018 and, by early 2021, will house a total of 18 gates with modern customer amenities, state-of-the-art architecture, and more spacious gate areas. After the Western Concourse completion, Skanska-Walsh will have delivered 35 new gates for the new Terminal B. According to Richard Kennedy, President, and CEO, Skanska USA, they are thrilled to celebrate another significant milestone at LaGuardia Airport, the largest and one of the most complex projects in Skanska’s history. “Opening these gates ahead of schedule with an exceptional safety performance is a testament to the diligence and tireless dedication of our team, subcontractors, and partners—an exceptional feat in light of a global pandemic,” he said. The Western Concourse opening follows the completion of the new Terminal B Arrivals and Departures Hall (Headhouse) which opened in June. The Headhouse is the central entry point for travelers flying out of Terminal B, with seamless integration to passenger concourses and gates, the new parking garage, and the forthcoming Central Hall which will connect to Terminal C and the planned future AirTrain. The building, which spans four levels, transforms the customer experience and streamlines airport operations, unimaginable with the old facility. 