Situated roughly 8 kilometers from Takoradi, Ghana’s Western Region capital, Petronia City is a proposed 2000-acre city development project that aims to provide the first fully integrated business hub for center for the oil, gas, and mining industries in the West African region. Petronia City project was founded to solve the infrastructure deficit in Ghana’s Western Region following the 2007 oil discovery and associated growth in socio-economic activity in the region. Wonda World Estates a joint venture between Ghanaian serial entrepreneur Nana Kwame Bediako and British multi-millionaire property developer Azad Cola, who owns the prestigious Westbury Hotel, are working on the projected development. Hosted by the Beahun and Yaabew communities in the Ahanta West District of Ghana, the Petronia City is set to be carried out in phases. The project’s first phase is a 70-acre model of the entire complex, starting with the installation of world-class basic infrastructure. In this Phase, commercial and residential facilities will be built, including: – 150 rooms in a four-star hotel with a 200-seat conference center.– 4 office buildings totaling 22,000 square meters.– Schools and Clinics Leisure Center Shopping Mall.– 25 Executive Villas with three and four bedrooms.– There are 140 studio, one, two, and three-bedroom apartments available. The second phase of the Petronia City will see the creation of West Africa’s first Energy City, which will serve as the primary business hub and office park for international oil, gas, and mining companies. The Energy City, which will be located in the heart of the Commercial Zone, will allow industry leaders in oil and gas exploration, production, and related support services to collaborate and form a more effective business community by leveraging shared resources, technology transfer, and improved information flow. Petronia City’s Golf City, the first of its kind in West Africa, will be a golf-centered community and tourism destination that will attract tourists from all over the world. The Golf City, which will be developed as part of Petronia City’s phase 2b will have luxury villas and apartments, a boutique, a clubhouse, retail stores, and restaurants set in 365 acres of beautiful terrain, providing locals and tourists with a unique experience. The Golf City is expected to be home to the only 18- hole elite championship golf course in the territory. The city’s light and heavy industrial zones will be developed under phase 2c. Facilities for electricity generation, water treatment, recycling plants, and aluminium and bauxite production will be housed in these zones. or enterprises wishing to develop or enter industrial production, the light, and heavy industrial zones will provide cutting-edge infrastructure, reliable power, and access to resources and consumers. The city’s residential, commercial, and leisure facilities, as well as civic institutions and landscaping, will be expanded in Petronia City’s phases 3. A world-class transportation hub, multi-purpose arena, and an Oil and Gas University will be among the highlights of the extra development.