Mega projects in India aim to transform the livelihoods of the second most populous country in the world. In recent years, we have seen a major push towards greater infrastructure projects in the developing world as the need for these projects take centrestage. Mega projects in India will ease the cost of doing business, alleviate poverty and improve the lives of millions. Also Read Visakhapatnam Beach Road Corridor in India to be world’s best The following are the top ongoing mega projects in India:  Of the Top ongoing mega projects in India The Delhi-Mumbai Trade Corridor is the largest project currently being undertaken. It is a 1,483 km railway track worked into nine “Mega Industrial Zones”. The project was started in pursuance of an agreement signed between the India’s government and Japan in 2006 December. The main aim of the billion-dollar scheme is to create a quick, reliable trade route linking the north of India to the south. Currently, it takes 14 days to transfer cargo along this route according to Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) Secretary Amitabh Kant.  With the DMIC’s completion, it will take just 14 hours.  The GIFT city project which kicked off in 2016 was conceived to focus on promoting India as a financial power. It will cover a construction area of 8.5 million square metres. 200 skyscrapers, some upwards of 80 metres tall, will dot the area, rivalling other financial districts in scope. The city features an integrated development model that is divided into three phases, each of which is planned to be an integrated, long-term development. The first phase entails the construction of office space, residential units, a school, a hotel, and a club. About 225 units/companies are operating as of April 2021, with over 12,000 experts employed in the city.  The scheme involves the construction of a rapid transit rail system in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India. Work on the project began in the third quarter of 2021 and is projected to be finished in the fourth quarter of 2026. The Chennai Metropolitan Area has been quickly expanding, and the amount of traffic on the highways has exploded. This initiative will help to alleviate traffic congestion on the highways.  The Diamond Quadrilateral is a project of the Indian railways to establish a high speed rail network in India. The Diamond Quadrilateral will connect the four mega cities in India, Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai, similar to the Golden Quadrilateral expressway system. The estimated cost of the project is US$13 billion and is financed by a low-interest loan from Japan. High-speed train on Mumbai-Ahmedabad section will be the first high-speed train corridor to be implemented in the country. The project was launched in 2014 by the Government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  The project entails the construction of a 9MTPA refinery facility on 526 acres of land in Nagapattinam, Tamil Nadu, India. Construction began in third quarter of 2021 and is projected to be completed in first quarter of 2026. The project seeks to produce diesel and petrol that satisfy Bharat Stage VI criteria, as well as making petrochemicals from 6% of the oil processed.  On 5,000 acres of land in Uttar Pradesh, India, the plan calls for the construction of an international airport with a passenger handling capacity of 70 million passengers per year. Construction began in the third quarter of 2021 and is expected to be finished in the fourth quarter of 2040. The project’s major goal is to give new transportation options for Indian tourists.  NMIA is one of the biggest greenfield airport projects in the world which is expected to handle 10 million passengers in its first year of operation, and a capacity of 60 million per year by 2030.NAMI will cover 11.6 square kilometres once built, with two parallel runways and a terminal building situated in between them. It will have to divert the nearby Ulwe River, flattening of hills, levelling ground and clearing green patches. The cost was originally estimated at US$630 million, but has since quadrupled to US$2.1 billion.  The scheme is also one of the top ongoing mega projects in India. It entails the development of a Paraxylene-Purified Terephthalic Acid (PX-PTA) plant in Paradip, Odisha, India, with a production capacity of 0.8MTPA of PX and 1.2MTPA of PTA. Construction began in the third quarter of 2021 and is projected to be completed in the first quarter of 2024. The project is part of a $2.1 billion plan by Indian Oil Corporation to construct a PTA plant and an ethylene glycol unit near its refinery in Paradip. 2,000 jobs will be created as a result of the project.  This is a National Highway proposed road with two lanes on each side having a minimum 10 metres width in the state of Uttarakhand. The project will complement the under-development Char Dham Railway by linking the four holy places in states; Badrinath, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Yamunotri. The highway will be 900 km long connecting the whole of Uttarakhand state. The entire cost of the scheme was estimated at 1.6 billion USD and was laid by Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi. The road will be called Char Dham Mahamarg.  This is a rail bridge, anticipated to be the highest rail bridge in the world, having a height of 359 metres (1,178 ft). It will be located in the Reasi district of Jammu & Kashmi, the bridge will have a length of 1.315km. Construction started in November 2017. The bridge is constructed at a cost of US$ 184 million and is expected to open to rail traffic in December 2022. 