KFW Development Bank of Germany has allocated close to US$ 33M to the Green City Kigali project. These monies are a tranche of slightly over US$ 62M released by the bank for the execution of critical initiatives addressing climate change and development concerns in the East African country. Kigali Green City is an environmentally-friendly mixed-use multi-billion project that is being developed in Kigali, the capital city of Rwanda, on the site previously occupied by the building that used to house the East African country ministry of justice, near Kigali Convention Centre. Spread over an area of 26,000 square meters, the Kigali Green Complex upon completion will have a total of 140 service apartment rooms, conference rooms, offices, entertainment and exhibition areas, in addition to cinema rooms, markets, shops, bars, and restaurants, forex bureaus, natural areas, children areas, playgrounds, pharmacies, clinics, and others. Reportedly, Kigali Green Complex will be Africa’s first gold-rated green, mixed-use complex. A gold-rated green building is a building that has been designed, constructed, and operated so as to have a low impact on the environment. It is basically designed to maintain a substantial reduction in energy and water consumption, low carbon gas emissions, and a reduced impact on natural resource consumption. Such buildings also ensure there is a complete elimination of hazardous waste as well as a reduction in operational costs, among other things, which in turn provides productivity and the well-being of the occupants through better indoor environment quality. The Kigali Green Complex project is developed by Duval Great Lakes Ltd, a subsidiary company of the French company Groupe Duval. It is designed by Vavaki Architects. Reported Earlier May 2019 The development of a model green city in Kigali is set to get underway in January 2020. Eudes Kayumba, Deputy Team Leader of the Green City Pilot project confirmed the reports and said they are finalizing relevant studies and designs to pave way for construction to begin. Mr. Kayumba noted that the project aims to showcase the viability of green cities in Rwanda and elements that could be replicated in the development of secondary cities across the country with green technologies and innovations for green and climate-resilient urbanization. Also Read International School of Kigali in US$5m school campus masterplan The green city will sit on 620 hectares in Kinyinya Sector, Gasabo District complete with a system that prevents environmental degradation and air pollution. It is estimated to cost a whopping US $5bn, and the funding will come from different stakeholders who have committed to pooling resources to ensure the completion of the project. The city will feature clean technologies, electric vehicles, electric bicycle, and motorcycle lanes, renewable energy, sustainable waste treatment, biogas plants, urban forests, among others. Construction will mainly use local building materials which will make houses more affordable and environmentally sustainable. “The estate will also have mini-factories with clean technologies, affordable housing, integrated craft production centers. We are conducting a study to estimate the jobs that will be created based on how the residents of the area generate income,” said Mr. Kayumba. Currently, Rwanda Green Fund (Fonerwa), with the financial support of the German Development Cooperation – through the KfW Development Bank – is undertaking a feasibility study for the Green Pilot, and contracted Sweco, a European engineering, and architecture firm, to support the implementation of the project. Feb 2020 Rwanda is set to receive a grant of US $12.5m from Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) a German development agency, for the implementation of the Kigali Green City Project. The green city will be built on 620 hectares of land, about 16km from the Rwandan capital, more precisely in Kinyinya, in the district of Gasabo. The sustainable city is expected to consist of 1,749 housing units built on 18 hectares. The specificity of these dwellings lies in the fact that they will be supplied with electricity produced from renewable sources such as solar energy. The houses will be connected to a wastewater and rainwater collection system. Effluent will be treated and reused. The government of Rwanda is also planning to build commercial establishments and offices to accommodate “innovative green enterprises”. The government has maintained that housing in the green city of Kigali will be affordable. The project aims to demonstrate that green building is a necessity, not a luxury, by working to change the stereotype that sustainability is expensive. Living in resource-efficient housing will significantly reduce electricity and water bills for a population that often spends up to 20% of its income on utilities. The financing agreement was recently signed in Kigali by German envoy Thomas Kurz and Uzziel Ndagijimana, the Rwandan Minister of Finance and Economic Planning. This is the first part of German funding for this important sustainable development project in Rwanda. Berlin plans to inject a further US $26m for the development of the Kigali Green City project. The development of the ecological city of Kigali will require an investment of more than US $26bn from the Rwandan government. The implementation of the project has been entrusted to the Rwanda Green Fund (Fonerwa). It also receives support from the United Nations Green Climate Fund (GCF). 