As part of the Los Angeles Airport US$ 14.5bn modernization project, crews have launched a US$ 230M restoration project to renovate gate and lounge rooms and rebuild passenger boarding bridges in Terminal 6 at LAX. According to LAX, Alaska Airlines has been hired to supervise the makeover, which will also enhance visitor access to the US Customs and Border Protection’s Federal Inspection Station and modernize the Transportation Security Administration’s Security Screening Checkpoint. There will be five automated screening lanes and three regular lanes at the new TSA checkpoint. When finished, the terminal will also include a drive-thru bus gate to improve the experience of passengers traveling to and from neighboring ports. The US$ 14.5bn airport modernization is the largest of its kind in the United States, and it includes a 2.25-mile Automated People Mover train system with six stations — three inside the Central Terminal Area and three outside the CTA — that will connect the train system to LA Metro and a car rental facility. Officials anticipate that the rail system will be ready in 2023 and that the entire renovation project will be completed in time for the 2028 Olympic Games in Los Angeles. The Los Angeles Board of Airport Commissioners proposed that the City Council approved US$1.067 billion for terminal 4 and 5 upgrades. Connecting the terminals to the Automated People Mover train, as well as adding new passenger check-in and baggage claim facilities, a consolidated security screening checkpoint, a new head house area for passenger processing, and a new post-security connection between the two terminals, are all part of the project. “Terminal 6 renovation is a critical component of how we are enhancing the passenger experience at LAX via industry-leading investments in technology, services, and facilities. We are delighted to begin construction on this next terminal project with our partners at Alaska Airlines, as we seek to build a world-class airport for Los Angeles and our visitors “said Justin Erbacci, CEO of Los Angeles World Airports.