Formerly known as XpressWest, Brightline West, a proposed privately run high-speed rail route between Las Vegas Valley and Victor Valley, in the high desert area of Southern California, is expected to break ground in 2023. Also Read: The US$14.5 billion Los Angeles Airport (LAX) Modernization Project The 170-mile electrified line will be built on leased property adjacent to I-15, with a top speed of 180 miles per hour and a journey time of around 90 minutes beginning at the Apple Valley railway station. Each train plying the route will have a capacity of 1,200 people and would run every 45 minutes. If the implementation of the Brightline West project that aims to provide an alternative to air and automotive travel between Southern California and Las Vegas-a favorite holiday destination for many residents of the region-begins in 2023, passenger services might commence three years later, in 2026. The developer estimates that the entire project will cost approximately US$ 8bn. The company attempted to issue up to US$ 3.2bn in tax-exempt bonds in 2020, but the offer was canceled due to a lack of demand. A bond-financing package is still being discussed, and there is optimism that the project would receive federal support as part of the recently enacted US$ 1.2tn infrastructure plan. Transportation officials are also investigating the possibility of a 63-mile connector between Brightline and the developing high-speed rail project in the Antelope Valley that would allow the former to connect directly with Union Station. Plans to build the high-speed rail extension from the Antelope Valley to Union Station have recently made a step forward after state officials certified the last Environmental Impact Report on the 14-mile extension from Burbank to Downtown Los Angeles. The City of Burbank objected to the extension arguing that the positioning of the train’s track could affect operations at Burbank Airport and the city’s drinking water supply. Officials have not yet certified any environmental studies on the proposed Palmdale to Burbank or Los Angeles to Anaheim high-speed rail segments, however, Metro has anticipated certification and progression of these segments by putting new projects into motion to support the proposed construction.