In 2011, the London Borough of Richmond-upon-Thames adopted a Supplementary Planning Document (SPD) for the Stag Brewery project site, in conjunction with local residents, to provide direction for any plans brought forward on the site. The SPD proposal is for a mixed-use development that will create a new village heart for Mortlake, complete with new amenities and public spaces for the benefit of the local community. The land was designated for significant redevelopment in Richmond’s Local Plan (approved in 2018 and 2020), which included residences and a new 6-form entry secondary school on-site. The Stag Brewery renovation plan is based on the SPD, as well as the Richmond Local Plan and the London Plan, and feeds on local context and major historic buildings. It produces an acceptable development that respects the SPD’s aim while also going above and above in building a lively and sustainable new center for the Mortlake community. The master plan envisions a variety of uses for the land, including residential, retail, office, community, recreational, and educational functions, as well as numerous new active open and green public areas. Upon further community consultation from 2016 to 2018, statutory consultation from 2018 to 2019, 2020, and 2021, and ongoing discussions with both the London Borough of Richmond-upon-Thames and the Greater London Authority (GLA), the proposal for the revitalization of the Stag Brewery has evolved. Though the GLA call-in procedure resulted in a number of adjustments, the updated scheme, which is a combination of the ‘GLA’ and LBRuT approved designs, continues to deliver many of the original community benefits, including: Although the following extra work was unsuccessful, between August 2020 and March 2021, further adjustments to the project were made as a result of the GLA call-in procedure and additional Mayoral recommendations, including: In addition, the following documents were submitted: Technical papers describing the transportation consequences of the closing of Hammersmith Bridge. These suggestions, together with supporting documentation, were submitted to the Mayor during the GLA Public Hearing on July 27, 2021. Following the hearing, the Mayor refused to issue a decision on the planning permission. The project team has been hard at work refining the updated ideas in response to the reasons for the refusal (available here), directly responding to points expressed by the Mayor. These are some examples: