Ashgal, the Public Works Authority responsible for planning, design, procurement, construction, delivery, and asset management of all infrastructure projects and public buildings in Qatar, has announced that they have completed Industrial Area Sewage Treatment Plant Third Expansion Project in Doha. The plant, located approximately 2 kilometers in the southwest direction of the industrial area in Doha, began operating in 2014, with a humble capacity of 12,000 m3 in a day. The first expansion took place in 2015 and the second in 2017. Both the first and second expansions brought up the plant’s capacity to well over 60,000 m2 a day. Also Read: The recent expansion increased the plant’s capacity to an additional amount of 30,000 m3 per day bringing the total capacity of the Sewage Treatment plant to 90,000 m3 a day, an impressive 650% increase. Head of Treatment Plants and TSE Network Projects Section in the Drainage Networks Projects Department at Ashghal, Eng. Abdulrahman Mohammed Al Sulaiti expressed that the Industrial Area Sewage Treatment Plant Third Expansion Project in Doha was a part of Ashghal’s plan in implementing a series of expansions for the sewage treatment plant within the Industrial Area. One of the key aims of the project is to keep up with the remarkable increase in the overall population and urban growth, especially in the industrial area and its infrastructure(s). Ashghal’s plan still includes another implementation of an additional expansion, if needed. If implemented the additional expansion will increase the plant’s capacity to reach 120,000 m3 per day. The Industrial Area Sewage Treatment Plant Third Expansion Project Manager, Eng. Nayif Abdulghani Alkathiri explained that the sewage treatment plant makes use of advanced treatment techniques in the production of treated water that matches the highest international standards. He added that the sewage water will be treated with ultrafiltration system(s), disc filters, UV treatment system, and additional technologies. These methods are aimed at ensuring the production of high-quality treated water with the least amount of human intervention.