The Richards Boulevard Office Complex in Sacramento’s River District is a 1,250,000 square foot ongoing project that aims to include four high-performance, collaborative, and interconnected office buildings, a rich amenities program calibrated for the needs of building occupants on day one and beyond, and a unique landscaping program. Also Read: CNU Teaching Hospital Project to be Developed at Site of Former Kings Arena in Sacramento, California These features act as the project’s connecting tissue, each improving and strengthening the relationship between tenants, buildings, and the expanding urban fabric of the neighborhood beyond. With an integrated approach to sustainability and a focus on triple-bottom-line value, the project will outperform Title 24 by more than 15% while achieving the lowest practical EUI. The project is being planned to achieve zero net energy (ZNE) and zero net carbon (ZNC) for the whole site using carbon-free green power purchased by the state. The multifaceted and highly sustainable design solution proposed by Hensel Phelps and ZGF in collaboration with Dreyfuss + Blackford establishes a precedent for Sacramento’s River District, a neighborhood transitioning from its industrial past to an eclectic and desirable neighborhood with close ties to the downtown core. The landscaping of the site includes shade trees that are strategically placed to improve pedestrian circulation and navigation. The Town Square, a prominent public open space, and planted pathways at ground level combine the podium and four buildings into a cohesive and interconnected user experience. A three-story bridge connects the two north towers, and a second-level timber bridge spanning Town Square creates a weather-protected link between the east and west sides of the campus. The project’s workplace solutions are benchmarked to best-in-class research and metrics representing intensive user prototyping and ‘day-in-the-life’ scenario testing to guarantee that workplace solutions meet the broadest variety of users’ demands as feasible. The Richards Boulevard Office Complex began construction in 2020 and is scheduled to be finished in March 2024.