Plans are underway for the development of a 175,000-square-foot new East Coast Warehouse facility on a 17.75-acre site within the Tradepoint Atlantic Logistics Center in Sparrows Point. Also Read Construction begins the West 202 Logistics Industrial project in Phoenix The facility, which is planned to be temperature-controlled, shall provide public cold storage and refrigerated warehousing solutions, with a parking and storage capacity for about 110 containers and trailers. Construction works are expected to be completed by June 2022. Upon completion, the New East Coast Warehouse Facility will be the second of the New Jersey-based East Coast Warehouse (ECW) company in Baltimore after the 30,000 sqft Temp-Distribution of Maryland Inc. site that ECW acquired last January. According to the company, the latter will be used in combination with the new East Coast Warehouse facility at Tradepoint Atlantic Logistics Center in Sparrows Point to provide a full suite of services for the Mid-Atlantic region, ranging from warehousing, brokerage, transportation, and Centralized Examination Services (CES). The facility shall also allow ECW to expand its footprint, enhance productivity, offer more flexible solutions, and provide an increased delivery speed to its customers in the Mid-Atlantic market. Speaking on the project, the CEO of ECW, Jamie Overley expressed his gratitude for the support provided by  Tradepoint and the Port of Baltimore. Overley thanked them for partnering with ECW and assisting with the company’s smooth transition into Baltimore’s market. The M.D of Tradepoint Atlantic, Marc Salotti, on the other hand, praised ECW’s announcement, stating that the development of this new East Coast Warehouse facility, shows how world-class companies at Tradepoint Atlantic can play a crucial role in facilitating and easing the rapidly evolving supply chain pressures of the modern world. Salotti also pointed out that Tradepoint Atlantic’s location was the perfect place for ECW to set up its new facility, as it would accommodate the company’s continued growth in the Mid-Atlantic region.