A groundbreaking ceremony for the implementation of a US$ 108M Deborah100 hospital expansion and renovation project, took place recently at the Browns Mills campus of Deborah Heart and Lung Center in New Jersey. The project entails the construction of a three-story vertical building featuring a total of 36 private patient rooms that would all be equipped for handling critical care and isolation. In addition, this new building would have an entire floor of respite space for staff use, consisting of indoor and outdoor covered lounges and quiet rooms. In addition to the construction of the new building, the Deborah100 hospital expansion and renovation project will also cover the renovation of three already existing patient care units, which will increase the total licensed bed count of the hospital to 95. Also Read New Patient Building to be Build at Abbott Northwestern Hospital Campus in Minneapolis Furthermore, the hospital will undergo several upgrades at its cardiac catheterization labs, which will include the addition of a new pharmacy clean-room and the installation of robotic technology in the electrophysiology labs. Throughout the construction and renovation work, digital and electronic systems will be integrated. According to Deborah’s CEO and President,  Joseph Chirichella the hospital’s clinical and support staff were fully engaged during the planning phase of the Deborah100 Hospital Expansion & Renovation Project that is focused on enhancing comfort and convenience of both patients and staff. The hospital’s team collaborated with Ewing Cole, Architects and Engineers, on the design plans and afterwards, the project was awarded to Torcon Inc., who is serving as the General Contractor. The majority of the Funds for the implementation of the US$ 108M Deborah100 Hospital Expansion & Renovation Project comes from the U.S. Department of Agriculture‘s low-interest loan for rural development worth US$ 88M. Another US$ 10M will be provided by Greater Commercial Lending, while the remaining funds will be generated through a Fundraising Campaign by Deborah Hospital Foundation.