Groundbreaking of the Berkeley Landing affordable housing project at Riviera Beach in South Florida was recently celebrated by Pinnacle, a Miami-based multi-family developer of residential rental communities, and Wendover Housing Partners, another leading multi-family housing developer, based in Altamonte Springs. This planned three-story residential community is intended to become a welcoming destination for not only families but also members of the emerging workforce, along the Broadway corridor. Construction on the Berkeley Landing affordable housing project will be carried out on a 4-acre site located at 3100 and 3124 Broadway Avenue; this will be handled by the general contractor named PDS Construction, which is a joint venture between the D. Stephenson Construction, one of the largest minority-owned general contractors based in Fort Lauderdale, and PC Building, an in-house construction arm of Pinnacle. Construction on the project is expected to be rounded up by late 2023. Based on the design plans by the Boca Raton-based RLC Architects, Berkeley Landing will consist of 110 affordable units and two ground floor market-rate live/work units, facing  Broadway. The affordable units will include a mix of one, two, and three-bedroom units; and all units will be furnished with high-quality and durable energy-efficient features, with the aim of making the market-rate and affordable housing developments indistinguishable. Also Read Affordable housing project launched in Gainesville, Florida The Berkeley Landing affordable housing project will feature several amenities which include a clubhouse, cyber lounge, pool and cabanas, covered pavilion, fitness center, playground and enclosed dog walk area. In addition, sculpture art installations will be carried out at two civic plazas along Broadway and Lake Shore Drive. This artwork project is a collective effort by the city, Wendover and Pinnacle to beautify residential communities and promote the Art in Public Places program. Wendover and Pinnacle were able to get the funding for the Berkeley Landing affordable housing project from the Florida Housing Financing Corp’s low-income housing tax credit program and the Riviera Beach Community Redevelopment Agency. Timothy P. Wheat, the regional VP at Pinnacle said in a statement that he was hopeful the Berkeley Landing affordable project would not only provide the much-needed quality affordable housing in the city but also set a standard for quality development on the Broadway corridor and serve as a stimulant for investment and growth in Riviera Beach.