Edwards, an England-based industrial vacuum equipment supplier, and provider of global semiconductor solutions, recently announced its plans to construct a state-of-the-art Edwards manufacturing facility in Chandler, a city in the southeastern region of Phoenix, Arizona. The facility, with a 200,000-sq-ft floor area, will be developed on a site located at 2411 E. Germann Road in Chandler. According to Mayor Kevin Hartke, Edwards had picked Chandler, after the rigorous site selection process due to its first-class workforce, excellent transportation access, and great quality of life. Also Read Heliostat Manufacturing Facility to be Built in Long Beach, California The Edwards Manufacturing Facility will consist of factory areas, spaces for warehousing, meeting rooms, and a dedicated training center. The operations of the plant will be focused mostly on disassembling, inspection, cleaning, replacement, repairs, and reassembling vacuum pumps; which will be managed by Advanced automation and manufacturing technologies. In addition, renewable energy and water recycling will be used to ensure the sustainable production of chips at the facility. Expected to be operational by the third quarter of 2022, Edwards Manufacturing Facility will offer the much-needed supply chain capacity, which will support the growth of the fast-growing North American semiconductor market. The CEO and President of the Arizona Commerce Authority, Sandra Watson spoke in favour of the new Edwards manufacturing facility, which she said would play a huge role in advancing Arizona’s leadership as a semiconductor hub, and also contribute to the creation of hundreds of skilled jobs. Watson said she was proud that Edwards would become part of Arizona’s semiconductor industry and state would back the company, as it begins production at the new manufacturing plant later this year. Chris Camacho, the CEO of the Greater Phoenix Economic Council, on the other hand, stated that the Edwards Vacuum expansion in Chandler was the latest addition to the state’s booming semiconductor industry. Camacho also said this development would help the region to maintain a competitive edge, and the council was looking forward to being a partner in  continued growth and success of Edwards.