Your commercial cleaning solutions done Right! Cleaning solutions are a basic requirement for any space especially in public areas such as offices, airports, hospitality businesses, residential complexes to name a few and the first step in getting cleaning right is by selecting the most effective and efficient equipment and solutions. Sheffield Africa has realized the importance of this in the industry by initially delving into the Commercial Laundry business that has expanded overtime from installations in hospitals, institutions and hotels to installation of over 60 laundromats in the country and a Laundromat Training Academy for Business Owners and Investors where they are offered a step by step guide on running a successful business by Laundry engineers and experts from Sheffield.  ‘We have realized the importance of cleaning solutions in the industry and have now partnered with a global leader- Taski to offer floor cleaning solutions ranging from automated sweepers, scrubber driers, vacuum cleaners, carpet care, robotics, sprayers and steam cleaners to keep your space hygienic and sparkling clean’ mentioned Mr. Suresh Kanotra, the Managing Director of Sheffield Africa. ‘Taski are the Ultimate Cleaning Machines suitable for any industry from Facility Management, Food Service, Corporates, Healthcare and Institutions and we appreciate their focus on development and innovation in offering cleaning and hygiene results.’ ‘TASKI –a Diversey group member- is a leading global brand in mechanical cleaning. TASKI’s reputation as a brilliantly engineered Swiss brand is well known. Our products are constructed with quality components and designed to last to ensure cleaning excellence’. Mentioned Mr. Robert Kabogo The Diversey Sales Director-East & Central Africa. ‘We are proud to be partnering with Sheffield as Our Main Distributor in East Africa as their focus is in offering solutions in the market from understanding their clients requirements, offering demos and trainings from their expert engineers and most importantly offering on site and after sales support’. TASKI is an advanced solution with one of their core values as the Internet of Clean and even has a TASKI App where you can be guided with their Simple Machine Selector, Video Learning Section and Products & Innovations. Sheffield Africa and Diversey will be launching their floor cleaning solutions on the 30th of March 2022 at The Sheffield Training Academy where they will have their team of experts to guide you as a Business Owner, Housekeeping Professional and Investor on the range of Floor Cleaning Solutions, Operations and Demos.