Designed by Adjaye Associates, an award-winning architectural and design firm with studios in Accra, London, and New York, the National Cathedral of Ghana is an interdenominational Christian cathedral set to be constructed in Accra, the West African country’s capital. This one-of-a-kind 21st-century monument in which religion, democracy, and local tradition are all harmoniously and symbolically linked, is expected to be a rich, authentic celebration of Ghanaian heritage and culture, as well as a place of inspiration, reflection, and collective devotion. According to finance minister Ken Ofori-Atta, who delivered the mid-year budget review in July 2021, the cathedral is expected to be commissioned officially on March 6, 2024. The initiative is the outcome of a pledge President Nana Akufo-Addo made to God before winning the elections in 2016. The design of the National Cathedral of Ghana is inspired by traditional symbols of adoration and veneration, referencing both Christian symbolism and Ghanaian culture. Also Read: Appolonia City Development Project Updates, Ghana The configuration is inspired by symbols such as the nation’s seat of power, the Stool, the shade of celestial authority, the Boaman, ceremonial canopies, and the Tabernacle. The National Cathedral democratizes these regal and religious symbols by transferring them from the individual to the public. The cathedral will be built on 14 acres of newly landscaped gardens near Osu Cemetery. It will include a baptistery, a 5000-seat two-level theatre, a grand central hall, a music school, choir rehearsals, an art gallery, a shop, and multi-use rooms. The government of Ghana maintains that the new Ghana National Cathedral will bring new skills, technology, and employment to the country, as well as serve as a tourist attraction for national, regional, and global tourism despite concerns that the project was a waste of money. It will also be home to Africa’s first Bible Museum and Documentation Centre, which will focus on Christianity and Ghana’s development. In conjunction with some of Ghana’s most well-known and progressive artists, Adjaye Associates will design the cathedral’s religious decoration and furnishings. Independence Square, Osu Cemetery, the State House, and Africa Unity Circle will all be connected to the Cathedral site by a new ceremonial route and environment.