Construction of The Ribbon, a US$6 million mixed-use adaptive reuse project in Detroit, the largest city in the midwestern state of Michigan, is set to start in summer, this year. The initiative was approved for a performance-based loan of US$ 1.3M from the Michigan Community Revitalization Program, as well as US$ 552,426 in Detroit brownfield funding. Flux City Development‘s Edward Carrington is Ribbon’s leader. Infuz Architects designed it, and Artisan Contracting is set to carry out the construction works which are scheduled to be finished in the fall of 2024. “The Ribbon” mixed-use adaptive reuse project will convert a former one-story, 5,760-square-foot Charter Bank facility on the corner of East Warren and Kensington into a three-story, 21,000-square-foot contemporary mixed-use structure. Also Read: Fisher 21 Lofts, a Fisher Body Plant Redevelopment Project in Detroit, Announced The project has stores and social rooms, as well as 18 residential units planned for the upper two floors. Many of the residential units will be priced between 50 and 80 percent of the Area Median Income. Outside, the Ribbon will have an outdoor eating plaza, and lighting, pathways, and landscaping will be improved. The initiative arose as a result of the Strategic Neighborhood Fund. “In February 2020, Invest Detroit sought proposals from qualified entities to rehabilitate the existing commercial structure on the East Warren Commercial Corridor, and the Ribbon was chosen based on direct input from local residents as to who should gain the ability to develop the site,” Carrington explains. According to Carrington, throughout the engagement time, the community provided a lot of feedback on what they wanted to see in the area. “During our engagement sessions, facilities with which the community could connect directly, such as a café, market, restaurant, and bar, were in high demand. The neighborhood has made it apparent that there is a genuine demand for areas for neighbors to connect and cooperate.” The retail tenant is yet to be chosen, but they intend to incorporate the community’s top requests and bring a café/restaurant to the location.