The financial close for the US$ 1.302bn senior debt facilities for the Red Sea Multi-Utilities Project has been attained according to ACWA Power, the company that in December, last year but one, was awarded a 25-year design, build, operate and transfer contract for the project by The Red Sea Development Company (TRSDC). The financing of the project will be provided by a consortium of international and Saudi Arabian banks. The Red Sea Multi-Utilities project is entirely reliant on renewable energy for water production, wastewater treatment, power generation, and district cooling. The energy requirements for the development of the project will be generated on a sustainable and fully dispatchable basis by a 340MW solar photovoltaic plant. It will include an associated storage system that uses a battery energy storage system (BESS) plant for captive use. The system has been designed with a capacity of c. 1.200 GWh, which upon deployment will be one of the world’s largest utility-scale BESS systems. The Battery Energy Storage System has also been designed to allow for the development of remaining completely off-grid. Also Read: Saudi Arabia: Neom City Project Timeline and All You Need To Know The Red Sea Multi-Utilities Project will also include the construction of three seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO) plants that will total a capacity of 32,500 cubic meters per day. These plants will provide clean drinking water, an efficient waste management center, and an innovative sewage treatment plant (STP). The latter will enable waste to be effectively managed in a way that enhances the environment by creating new wetland habitats while at the same time, supplementing irrigation water for use for the TRSDC landscape nursery. The first phase of the project, under which TRSDC expects peak power and water demand to reach 210MW and 30,000 cubic meters a day (cm/d) respectively, is expected to be launched by the end of this current year. This will be increased further to 360MW and 50,000 cm/d when the project reaches its second phase.