Did you know that you can avoid most plumbing issues? Unfortunately, many people do not notice that their actions have more negative effects than positive outcomes. We want to change that by giving plumbing tips that you must know. Are you having problems with a leaking faucet, clogged pipe, or low water pressure? Perhaps, you want to reach out for an expert plumber, and with a good reason. Frisco plumbers are available 24/7 to solve any plumbing issues you may have. We understand that it is hard to have plumbing problems when you least expect it. Homeowners in Frisco usually do not have the needed skills for a do-it-yourself plumbing job. They can sometimes make the problems worse in the end, initiating thousands of money in personal and property damage. But do not put your plumber on your speed dial just yet! Here are TEN basic plumbing tips every Frisco homeowner must know. Perhaps these ten tips could save you from spending thousands of dollars on a visit from your local plumber. Before transferring into a new house, know the location of the shut-off valves and drain (in some cases, you will see the location of the shut-off valve outside the house). You should also get familiar with sewer line access points in case you perform regular maintenance. Note that condos and apartments may not have their designated shut-off valves. Are you planning to pound nails or drill holes into your walls, ceiling, or floors? First, know if there are any drainage pipes or supplies behind your work area because you do not want to pierce them accidentally. You may locate the pipes under walls with a cheap stud finder. You could invest in an endoscopic camera for an alternative, which can go into the walls. Homeowners should not use their toilet as a trash bin because flushing anything except toilet paper can cause bad clogs. Even flushable items, such as baby wipes can back up the plumbing system. Never throw food debris, bacon grease, coffee grounds, starchy foods like rice or potatoes, and vegetable peelings down the drain; they will almost surely clog your pipes. It is also clever to read the manual for your garbage disposal to know what the unit can manage. Purchase a high-quality plunger to remove clogs in sinks, drains, and toilets. If you plan to clean sink traps, take a plunger to push the water out before removing the sink trap. This task will be messy and wet. When you are trying to remove a clog compelled by a small, hard thing (like a toy, comb, toothbrush), use a wet-dry vacuum. It is more efficient and effective to suck out the hard object. A plunger will only push the item down the drain, making it more challenging to dislodge. That persistent drips or leaks from a fixture imply money going down the drain. A dripping faucet generally consumes up to eight gallons of water daily, while a running toilet can consume and waste 200 gallons per day. Mend small leaks quickly before they become headaches and expensive problems. A usual do-it-yourself plumbing mistake is over-tightening connections and fittings, which causes damaged bolts and broken screws. Take note of this saying: hand-tight is just right. Teflon tape (also called Plumber’s tape) is used to seal pipe threads to avoid leaks around fittings and joints. Wrap the Teflon tape three times around the pipe threads before sealing them. Also, take note that white tape is for usual household plumbing jobs, while yellow tape is for gas line connections. After each plumbing job, inspect for leaks by running water through your plumbing system; then, open and close all drains and valves. Even expert plumbers may overlook tiny leaks and need to reseal a fitting or connection. Most homeowners lack the vital expertise to do a Do-It-Yourself plumbing job. They may further worsen the situation, causing thousands of dollars in personal and property damage. It is okay not to dial the number of your local plumber. Follow some plumbing basics in this article that each homeowner should know. Learning a few plumbing tricks and tips might provide you with the courage you need to look after your plumbing. It can save you money, and you will not have to pay a professional for tiny repairs. However, if the problems become huge, call Lex’s Plumbing immediately.  