A Mixed-Use Complex has been planned to replace the legendary Viper Room in West Hollywood. The plan is to replace the present home of the Viper Room, as well as billboards, parking, and a handful of other small commercial buildings, on a block-long site on the south side of the Sunset Strip between Larrabee Street and San Vicente Boulevard. Also Read: Heliostat Manufacturing Facility to be Built in Long Beach, California In their place, a new mid-rise building with a 113-room five-star hotel, conference spaces, amenities, shops, and a new Viper Room location, as well as 26 market-rate condominiums and 8 affordable housing units will be developed. An underground garage with an undefined number of parking spots will accompany the development. The current estimates have been reduced significantly from Silver Creek Development Co.‘s initial concept for the property, which included 115 hotel rooms and 41 condos, as well as 10 affordable apartments. The most significant alteration, though, is in the project’s design. Morphosis‘ eye-catching proposal, which is intended for a pair of 200-foot-tall towers connected by a rooftop terrace with restaurant space and services, has been scrapped. In its place is a more modest design by Arquitectonica, represented as a contemporary 11-story building with open-air seating on the roof level and other eateries flanking the relocated Viper Room on the street level. According to a schedule included in an environmental report issued by the City of West Hollywood, Silver Creek Development, which purchased the project site for US$ 80M in 2017, was most recently projected to break ground on 8850 Sunset in 2022 and open the project by 2025. This timeline is also subject to the City of West Hollywood’s acceptance of project entitlements. “Designed to further revitalize the Sunset Strip while paying homage to its rich legacy,” the press release said. “The 8850 Sunset project will contribute to the community’s liveliness throughout the day and night with a remarkable mixed-use vision that includes street-level cafés, pedestrian-oriented restaurants and bars, retail spaces, a five-star luxury hotel, and residences.”