As part of the Oxford Corridor phase 2 project, Network Rail has contracted Kier Group plc to provide the comprehensive design and enabling works package for the Oxford railway station upgrade. This contract award re-establishes Kier and Network Rail’s long-standing historic relationship. It is Kier’s first contract outside of the traditional Network Rail frameworks. “The Oxford Corridor phase 2 project is of national importance given its aim to improve passenger routes, not only to the North and South but also to the East and West due to the link with East-West Rail,” stated Mark Pengelly, Group managing director of Kier Infrastructure. Kier will collaborate with our strategic design partner WSP Global Inc to create the detailed design and undertake the enabling works for the project, combining our knowledge and expertise in complex civil engineering in the rail sector to deliver safely while minimizing disruption to the traveling public and nearby businesses.” Kier will take Phase 2C and 2D of the plan through Governance for Railway Investment Projects (GRIP) Stage 5 before an ultimate funding decision, which is anticipated in the coming months. Also Read: The Levenmouth Rail Link Project Updates, Scotland Phase 2C Botley Road enhancements include replacing the current railway bridge across Botley Road with a new, bigger structure with 4m wide cycle/footways on either side of the road. The highway will be lowered to allow double-decker buses to travel beneath the bridge for the first time. The building of an extra platform and overhead canopy, a new western station entrance, ticket office, waiting for the area, restrooms, café, and shops, and the construction of a subway to link the western entrance to the new platform are all part of Phase 2D platform 5 and station enhancement works. This package also involves the demolition of houses near the station, as well as road alignment work, including the replacement of Sheepwash Bridge, to improve safety at the junction with Botley Road.