The Chicago Plan Commission has approved the construction of Fulton Tower, a 305 residential units development on 1353 West Fulton Street where an old one-story brick structure and a small surface parking area are situated. Shapack Partners, a Fulton Market-based, multi-asset class real estate development company that acquires, repositions, develops, and invests in properties throughout Chicago, is developing the project, which will have a 28-story mixed-use skyscraper. It will rise 314 feet and have 305 residential units, ground floor retail space, 115 parking spots, and 58 bike parking places. The unit mix will include studios, one-bedrooms, and two-bedrooms. The project, designed by SOM, will have a three-story pedestal with a square tower component rising above, positioned along N. Ada St off of W. Fulton St. The residential entrance will be on N. Ada St, with retail space extending all the way up to W. Fulton St. The podium will be topped with amenity space, which will occupy the 28th story of the skyscraper. Balconies will be placed on the facade in an apparently random arrangement that corresponds to unit kinds. Also Read: West Loop Gate Office Restoration &#038; Expansion Project in Chicago Approved The podium will be expressed as two distinct massings after several iterations. The area underneath the tower is portrayed in the same materiality and gridding as the structure above. To the north of the tower, near the intersection of W. N. Fulton St. and Fulton St. Ada Street is portrayed as a solid volume with brick detailing that adds porosity and dance of light and shadow as the sun moves. The US$ 135M project will achieve environmental targets by attaining Green Globes 2-Globes certification, constructing two EV charging stations, prepping 23 parking places for EV charging readiness, adding a CTA digital display, and assuring an 80 per cent construction waste diversion rate. To achieve the affordability standards, the developers will offer 61 units of affordable housing on-site with a weighted average AMI of 60%. This indicates that 20 of the units will be at or below 50% AMI, and three units will be at or below 40% AMI. The developers are collaborating with DOH as part of the FMID strategy to exceed the 20% affordability criterion.