Countryside, the UK’s leading mixed-tenure developer, and Riverside, a national housing association and care provider with over 75,000 homes under management, have received planning permission from Bromley Council for the redevelopment of the Pike Close estate in Bromley, which will result in the delivery of 170 homes, including 92 affordable homes for the estate’s existing residents. The new development, designed by HTA architects, would replace current affordable housing with high-quality homes that match the specific needs of existing residents, as well as provide 78 more residential homes to fulfill the area’s acute housing demand. With planning permission having been obtained, the first phase of work is set to begin in Summer 2022, with the entire property set to be completed in 2031. Importantly, the phasing has been arranged in such a way that existing residents will only have to relocate once. Read also: Construction of Hyde’s 1200 Units at Charlton Riverside Scheme in London  Landscaping and open space are essential to the concepts for Pike Close, with a central green space that will serve as the community’s heart, giving a place for residents to rest, enjoy the outdoors, and play for children. The development’s layout was created with nature and green spaces in mind, with inhabitants guided via the network of green spaces towards the Heart of the Community, which will provide an open and welcome entrance to the new Pike Close. Once completed, the new development will roughly treble the number of trees on the land. The regeneration encourages sustainable transportation measures by providing electric charging stations, a vehicle club with two years of free membership for residents, and 331 bicycle parking places. In addition to the installation of PVs, the proposed development makes use of efficient building design to lower residents’ energy expenditures. This planning clearance comes after five years of conversation and interaction with Pike Close homeowners, which led in an 82 percent vote in favor of redevelopment in May 2019. Following the successful ballot result, Countryside and Riverside collaborated with residents, the London Borough of Bromley, and the local community to positively develop the scheme’s design, holding over 18 consultation events prior to planning submission as part of the partners’ commitment to inclusive design.