Please enable JavaScript The Borouge 4 is approaching its next phase of development as infrastructure works commence. This is according to the project director, Sultan Zaid Al Shehhi. The infrastructure works include the establishment of a utility system and associated civil works as well as roadworks at the complex that covers an area equal to 500 football pitches. The facility will make use of Borealis’ proprietary Borstar technology. The technology will be in use for the production of high-quality polyolefin solutions. The Borouge 4  project is one o the key pillars of ADNOC’s growth strategy. Its production aims to meet the ever-growing customer demand across a broad range of industrial sectors. These include the energy, advanced packaging, infrastructure, and agriculture sectors. Aside from the Middle East, the project aims to reach Africa as well as the Asia Pacific regions. Additionally, the project will contribute to the steady development of the UAE’s downstream as well as industry sectors. Furthermore, the facility will supply feedstock for the TA’ZIZ Industrial Chemicals Zone that is catalyzing the next phase of the UAE’s industrial growth. Additionally and significantly, the facility will also create opportunities for UAE-based manufacturers to “Make It In The Emirates”. Sultan Zaid revealed that well over 25% of the total materials and equipment of the facility are being ‘Made In The UAE’. Reported earlier March 2022  Recently, chemical specialists, Borealis and The Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) broke ground on the US$ 6.2bn Polyolefin Expansion Project that entails the construction of the fourth Borouge facility, also known as Borouge 4 at the firm’s polyolefin manufacturing complex in Ruwais, United Arab Emirates. Also Read: Construction on Abu Dhabi Natural History Museum to be Completed in 2025 When completed, expectedly in 2025, the Polyolefin Expansion Project will make Borouge the world’s largest and single-site polyolefin complex with the capacity to produce a total of 6.4 million tonnes of polyethylene per year owing to the new 1.4 million tonnes capacity Borouge 4. The project is also set to enable the Ruwais Industrial Complex‘s next phase of growth through the supplying of feedstock to Ta’Ziz. This in effect will enhance the local industrial supply chains further leading to more in-country value opportunities. The Ruler’s Representative in the Al Dhafra Region, Sheikh Hamdan bin Zayed Al Nahyan applauded both Borealis and The Abu Dhabi National Oil Company for their combined efforts towards the Polyolefin Expansion Project. He also highlighted the company’s role in contributing to the advancement of the petrochemicals industry in terms of further supporting the United Arab Emirate’s sustainable diversification and economic development plans. Thomas Gangl, CEO of Borealis, acknowledged the Polyolefin Expansion Project of Borouge 4 as being another milestone in the successful business journey and strategic partnership between their company and The Abu Dhabi National Oil Company. On the other hand, the CEO of the ADNOC group, Dr. Sultan bin Ahmed Al Jaber revealed that in terms of sustainability, the project conducted a study for a Carbon Capture Unit, and the results indicated that it would significantly reduce carbon dioxide emissions.