Crawford Hoying, a real estate developer, based in Ohio and Shaner Hotels, recently announced their plans to begin construction on the 171-unit Hotel Celare in Clifton Heights, Cincinnati. This will be the 47th Marriott-branded property owned by Shaner Hotels and also its 7th hotel in Ohio. The Hotel Celare is being built through a partnership between Crawford Hoying and Trinitas Ventures, and its location will be within The District at Clifton Heights, a US$ 500M mixed-development to be built by Crawford. The hotel’s site is located right across the street from the University of Cincinnati’s campus, on 310 Straight Street. The developers expect construction on Hotel Celare to commence later this year, with a completion date set for early 2024. Also Read Conrad Residences &#038; Conrad Hotel Project Coming to Austin, Texas Based on the design plans by Meyers+Associates, the 171 unit Hotel Celare building will consist of a 50/50 mix of luxury queen and king hotel rooms. The 132,000 square foot building will also feature about 18,500 square feet of leasable retail/restaurant components on the ground and second floors, along with an event and meeting space on the second floor. Other amenities offered include a business center, 24/7 fitness center, rooftop bar on the seventh floor, and outdoor terraces overlooking Clifton Streets. Hotel Celare’s unique brand, led by Norris Design is targeted at the Modern Mavericks, which refers to the vibrant, eclectic individuals that are curious about the world. It also focuses on curating curiosity, which goes far beyond just the interior designs, space plans, and service pillars of the building. Studio 11, a design firm based in Texas will be spearheading the interior design, which features a bright color palette, with fun patterns and lush materials throughout the building. The president of Shaner Hotels, Plato Ghinos, said that they intend to leverage their market and brand expertise to ramp up Hotel Celare much quicker. Ghinos also said he was confident the hotel, once completed would quickly take its place as a choice destination for businesses and leisure travelers coming to the region.