Boise State University has unveiled plans for the construction of a new US$ 4M ESI Building for Construction Management, named after the Meridian-based construction business co-owned by Boise State and Construction Management alum Neil Nelson. The ESI Building for Construction Management, named after Engineered Structures Inc (ESI)‘s vision and commitment to the Department of Construction Management, will honor ESI’s vision and commitment to the Department of Construction Management and ensure that the next generation of construction management graduates has the facility needed to provide ongoing innovation and discovery opportunities. The cutting-edge structure will represent a number of “firsts” for not only Boise State, but also the state of Idaho. The new construction management facility will be the first in Idaho developed by an all-female team of architects and engineers led by Lombard/Conrad Architects. The design has a beautiful exterior and interior that highlights the use of diverse building materials and construction processes. The mass wood construction, in particular, will make this a “first of its kind” building in the Boise metropolitan region. The building will be the first university structure to face Beacon Roadway, a street with increasing traffic and exposure. The multi-level, 12,000-square-foot facility offers students larger laboratory structures, cutting-edge learning spaces, a 45-seat computer and construction technology classroom, and additional high bay structures for increased external lab activities. Also Read: Plans Afoot for Construction of 960K sq. ft Kuna Data Center in Idaho “ESI has supported internships and curriculum development at Boise State University’s Construction Management department for over 15 years. We are thrilled to be able to contribute to the realization of this much-needed facility so that the University may continue to supply highly skilled and educated students for Idaho’s rapidly developing construction sector,” said ESI Construction President Neil Nelson. “Construction Management is an interesting curriculum that gives students the opportunity to literally impact the future. Our student growth in the program has exploded, and this will help us fulfill the demand in our state,” added Dr. Marlene Tromp, President of Boise State.