Plans are underway for the construction of a US$ 50M Messer Air Separation plant in McGregor, Texas. The facility will be built on an 85-acre site located along Bluebonnet Parkway within a 9,600-acre industrial park that is also home to the SpaceX rocket-testing facility. Out of the 85 acre-site, 35 acres will be owned by the project’s developer, the German-based Messer Group, while the remaining 50 acres will be leased to the same company when needed. The Messer Air Separation plant in McGregor will be operated using energy generated from a solar farm located on-site at the McGregor industrial park. This large-scale air separation unit (ASU) will be the first by Messer in the U.S, to be powered by its own solar farm. Also Read SpaceX progresses with Starship’s first Florida pad and launch tower The incorporation of the solar power plant at the project site will help reduce the facility’s carbon emissions which aligns with the company’s core values of environmental protection and sustainability. Amy Ficon, Messer Americas spokesperson explained that during regular operating times, the solar farm will have the capacity to generate enough power to meet the needs of the Messer Air Separation plant, while on the hottest summer days in Texas, it could generate enough power for over 1,800 residential households. The Messer Air Separation plant in McGregor will be used for the production of gases needed in various industries such as health care, food, aerospace, and electronics. Customers can reportedly have these gases shipped to them in whatever volume, pressure, or purity they desire. According to Andrew Smith, the executive director for the McGregor Economic Development Corp, the new Messer Air Separation plant is likely to cause additional traffic, as a large amount of gases would be delivered by trucks to customers. Smith pointed out that usually a company focusing on fuel would raise safety concerns, but Messer happens to be well-grounded in safety principles and was able to pass the city’s vetting process.