Plans for the next major phase of the Middlewood Locks scheme in Salford, a city and the main settlement of the Salford metropolitan borough in Greater Manchester, England have been approved by the Salford City Council. The plans which were submitted last June for approval, include major residential and commercial development as well as large areas of public realm for the remaining 10-acre plot of land that connects the existing community at Middlewood Locks and Salford through the Ordsall Chord railway arches to Manchester city center. Also Read: Downing’s mixed-use development enabling works start in Manchester city According to the plans the next phase of the Middlewood Locks scheme in Salford, include major residential and commercial development as well as large areas of public realm for the remaining 10-acre plot of land that connects the existing community at Middlewood Locks and Salford through the Ordsall Chord railway arches to Manchester city center. The approved plans call for the development of a total of 659 residential apartments within two blocks, one to be part 28-storeys and part 10-storeys linked by a podium garden, and the other part 32-storeys and part 11-storeys, alongside the ground and first-floor commercial space of circa 18,000 sq ft. It also calls for 250 residential apartments within an L-shaped building that steps down from 15 storeys to 11 storeys.  There will also be a 4,500 sq ft commercial space provided with an extensive canal-side public realm for residents and visitors. Linked by a new landscaped public square with event space linking the two plots, both plots will have dedicated under-croft parking, electric charging points, and bicycle storage. The Middlewood Locks scheme generally entails the redevelopment of a 24.5 acres of property in Salford, just a short walk from Manchester’s St John’s and Spinningfields neighborhoods. The proposal, which was pushed as part of the Northern Powerhouse by former chancellor George Osborne, was initially estimated to cost slightly over US$ 956M to build. The first and second phases of the project designed by Whittam Cox Architects with a total of 1,117 flats, were constructed by Beijing Construction Engineering Group International (BCEGI) and are already sold out. In addition to BCEGI and Whittam Cox Architects. the Middlewood Locks scheme in Salford also has Zerum as the scheme’s planning advisor.