Hanover Hollywood, a new mixed-use property has been unveiled in Hollywood, a neighborhood in the central region of Los Angeles, California, by Hanover Company, a part of the Lessors of Real Estate Industry that specializes in the acquisition, development, and management of multi-family residential properties. The seven-floor property, which replaced a car wash and small retail buildings located at 6200 Sunset Boulevard, will offer a total of 270 studio, one-, and two-bedroom apartments with plaster, aluminium, and stone tiling, in addition to chef-styled kitchens, spa-like baths, enormous walk-in closets, and generously proportioned living areas. Also Read: Groundbreaking at Palmdale Terrace affordable housing, California The project will also offer 12,000 square feet of ground-floor retail space, courtyards, roof decks, a fitness center, and a subterranean garage with 361 parking slots. The podium-style structure was designed by Steinberg Hart, a multi-disciplinary design firm practicing architecture, planning, and interior design. Residents of Hanover Hollywood will also be just steps away from the famous junction of Hollywood and Vine, which is known as the center of the Hollywood Walk of Fame. The Hanover Company project is one of a few new mixed-use buildings near the Earl Carroll Theatre, after the completion of a 200-unit apartment complex by Essex Property Trust at 6250 Sunset Boulevard. The Sares-Regis company is also developing 153 flats near Sunset’s junction with Vine Street. The proposed location is also south across the street from parking lots where Miami-based Crescent Heights is building a two-tower complex and a short walk south from Mill Creek Residential Trust’s Modera Argyle apartments, which are now under construction. Aside from homes, several big office complexes have been erected along Sunset Boulevard in the last five years, drawing corporations such as Netflix and ViacomCBS. The next such project is a projected extension of Sunset Gower Studios, which is expected to rise a block east of Hanover Hollywood.