High Street Residential, a residential subsidiary of Trammell Crow has reached a major milestone on the 43-story Parkside Residences tower project, which broke ground two years ago at 808 Crawford Street in downtown Houston. Construction on the 309-unit high-rise building has topped out at 470 feet, and residents are expected to move into the first batch of completed units by Summer 2022. Designed by Ziegler Cooper Architects and Waldrop + Nicholas, the Parkside Residences tower features a mix of studio, one-, two- and three-bedroom units, as well as two-story corner loft units, with improved finishes on several levels throughout the tower.  All units are designed with 10-foot ceilings; floor-to-ceiling windows; blackout shades; chef-quality kitchens with Bosch or Thermador appliances; quartz countertops and premium plumbing fixtures; European-made custom cabinetry; spa-like bathroom features; and spacious closets. The Parkside Residences tower will also feature several shared amenities for residents which include a lounge and clubroom with a catering kitchen; a rooftop pool which will be the tallest in the city; two guest suites to accommodate short-term guest stays; a standard fitness center; an expansive work-from-home suite; and several outdoor seating spaces, overlooking the Discovery Green Park. On floor 43 of the building, a  cantilevered observation deck, angled at 270 degrees will be available to offer residents amazing views. Also Read Lucia Park Residential Tower Construction in Glendale, LA, to Begin in Aug The location of the facility also offers walkable access to sports venues, restaurants, and the downtown office building. According to Yewande Fapohunda of High Street Residential, this tower would be the only one with an internal connection to the Houston tunnel and skywalk systems. The partners involved in the Parkside Residences tower project include Walter P Moore, SCA Consulting Engineers, Kudela & Weinheimer, and Wylie Consulting Engineers. While Andreas contractors are the general contractor of the project. Construction work on the entire tower is expected to be completed by summer 2023.