Landowner Canada Israel and development manager Avanton have revealed plans for a new residential-led development dubbed Stonebridge Place at Wembley Point Site on Harrow Road, with a 32-story main tower and stepped structures crowded around it. The 32-story tower will be triangular in shape with a glass and green terracotta façade. It will house 266 one, two, and three-bedroom apartments. The second stepped building, which will rise from 10 to 20 stories and have a glass and beige brick façade with balconies, will provide 249 mixed-tenure dwellings and flexible commercial space, as well as a big podium garden at first-floor level. Read also: Plans Approved for Next Phase of Middlewood Locks Scheme in Salford 341 of the total new homes will be for market sale, with 35% set aside for affordable housing, including 57 shared ownership units and 117 affordable rental units. A new boxing gym and public café will be housed in a projected third three-story building on the site, which will have a glass and bronzed-black terracotta façade. All the new structures will be centered on the site’s existing 21-story office building which was erected in 1965 and named Wembley Point Tower before being converted into a residential complex in January 2022. The development will also have landscaped gardens, pedestrian boulevards, children’s play spaces, and water features. Plans also include a civic square for food markets, a new Wembley outdoor film festival, and an art and antiques market. The Stonebridge Place at Wembley Point Site was designed by architect Patel Taylor, with environmental and water features advice by Pell Frischmann. Speaking on the project, Gil Selzer, Managing Director of Canada Israel UK, said that it is a major urban regeneration project that will establish a new attraction for South Wembley and that it marks the next step in Canada Israel’s international expansion aspirations and the establishment of a prominent real estate presence in London. “Avanton is happy to be cooperating with multinational property business Canada Israel on this important urban renewal project in Wembley, which will provide market sale, BTR, and social housing availability,” says Avanton CEO Omer Weinberger.