Renovations on the Sheraton Hotel in downtown Phoenix are complete. The hotel was originally built over the course of two years, opening in 2008. The contracting company Rosendin views it as a turning point as it was this project that solidified their commitment and investment in BIM (Building Information Modeling) and prefabrication efficiency in order to make jobs more efficient with fewer mistakes. For the most recent renovation project, Rosendin worked with General Contractor Balfour Beatty Construction and provided electrical services to the Sheraton’s main lobby, arrival area, lobby lounge, marketplace area, coffee bar, studios, and restaurant and club lounge. “The Renovations on the Sheraton Hotel was complex to take on because 90% of the light fixtures were custom made, some of which were delayed. These custom builds required additional time and intricate installation,” said George Flaherty, Rosendin Project Manager. “This kind of challenge is what makes the work we do exciting and never boring as we get to problem-solve every day. There is so much about this project that reflects the Rosendin way.” Also Read Tri-County Mall Redevelopment project update The contracting company worked on the original build as well as two remodels making it a particularly special project to the Rosendin team. Despite complications of the COVID-19 pandemic and the challenges of working in a fully operational hotel, Rosendin completed renovations on time and on budget with zero injuries. “The Sheraton Hotel is one of the most prominent landmark projects that come to mind when I think about what Rosendin has achieved in Arizona. This is a passion project for me as the initial construction project was one of the safest and most rewarding projects we have had in Arizona. We have been fortunate to perform both remodels of this stunning hotel,” said Mike Greenawalt, CEO of Rosendin. “It brings me great joy to see another safe and successful project completed by our employees throughout these past two years.”. Rosendin, headquartered in San Jose, is employee-owned and one of the largest electrical contractors in the United States, employing over 7,500 people, with revenues averaging $2 billion. Established in 1919, Rosendin remains proud of our more than 100 years of building quality electrical and communications installations and value for our clients but, most importantly, for building people within our company and our communities. Our customers lead some of the most complex construction projects in history, and rely on us for our knowledge, our ability to scale, and our dedication to quality. At Rosendin, we work to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to reach their full potential by building a culture that is diverse, safe, welcoming and inclusive. For more information, visit www.rosendin.com