A partnership deal has been signed between Eccopia and Azure Power, for the development of the 400 Megawatts Azure Power Hybrid Power Project in Ananthapuram, a city in the Anantapur district of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. Eccopia is an Israeli company, and the pioneer and market leader in connected, AI, and data-driven PV modules cleaning solutions, while Azure Power is a leading renewable power producer in India with a proven track record and a portfolio of over 7.4 GWs* of high-quality renewable energy assets. Speaking on the deal, the CEO of Ecoppia, Jean Scemams, said that upon the founding of the company eight years ago, their goal had always been to allow for scalability while enhancing profitability for large solar sites around the world. Jean expressed that the Azure Power Hybrid Power Project in Ananthapuram will help them prove their company goal as well as offer Azure Power various autonomous robotic solutions. The project is projected to kick off in the first half of 2022. Also Read: Work begins on Indiana’s largest solar facility The 400 Megawatts Azure Power Hybrid Power Project in Ananthapuram involves the combination of two types of installations, the first of which is the fixed-tilt while the other is the Single Axis Trackers (SAT). The combination of the two types of installations along with challenging terrains and varied structures is reportedly another exemplification for Ecoppia’s wide capabilities to tailor a long-term and cost-effective solution for leading energy players. The robotic deployment is projected to include Ecoppia’s whole product suite, including the E4, the T4 as well as Ecoppia’s latest addition “the Ecoppia H4”. The latter is said to be designed to utilize safe microfibers and controlled airflow. This then allows the H4 to direct dust and dirt particles downward without necessarily accumulating them. Its mechanism is simple; moving horizontally while cleaning vertically. All of the aforementioned product suites are driven by the company’s patented Helix Technology.