A 501-Unit Residential Villa Project in Tabouk City, the capital city of the Tabuk Region in northwestern Saudi Arabia, has been launched by Saudi Arabia’s very own National Housing (NHC) under Sakani, a real estate initiative to support and enable Saudi citizens to own their first home. The project is reportedly spread over an area of over 142,000 square meters in the Tabruk Valley, within a residential neighborhood that has been integrated. The villas feature design models that consider future expansion and are built on areas that start from 203 square meters to 245 square meters. CEO of National Housing, Mohammed bin Saleh Al Bati explained that the villas of the residential villa project in Tabouk City will be available in three versatile and different models that include various spaces and designs. Read Also Saudi Arabia Launches New Makanah Residential Project in Makkah The decision to offer versatile villas roots from efforts being put towards offering an array of multiple housing options for the families that would be interested to own properties. The project assures residents that it will meet the needs of families in Saudia Arabia with the number of services and facilities that are available. The Sakani Programme assured its beneficiaries that they aim to provide a modern environment that will contribute to an improved quality of life. The Residential Villa Project in Tabouk City is a project that is part or rather an extension of several other schemes and projects that are being implemented in the region. Mohammed bin Saleh Al Bati, that this project alongside their other projects will contribute towards the addition of well over 6,000 housing options for the beneficiaries of the Sakani program. The other projects that Sakani is also working on and are also under construction are Basateen Tabouk, featuring 812 townhouses, and Durrat Tabuk, featuring 1056 apartments. Additionally, other projects that have already been completed include Umluj Housing, Tabuk Housing, and Tima’s Housing Project