A project for the rehabilitation of Freetown National Stadium, officially known as Siaka Stevens National Stadium, and the only national stadium in Sierra Leone has been inaugurated. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony Dr. Francis Kai-Kai, the Sierra Leonean Minister of Planning and Economic Promotion, on behalf of His Excellency President Julius Maada Bio said that the China Aid Project-funded is in the realization of President Bio’s manifesto commitments for the development of sports activities in the West African country. The Freetown National Stadium rehabilitation project will be carried out by Gansu Construction Investment Group Co., (GCIGC) Ltd a subsidiary of Gansu Construction Investment (Holdings) Group Corporation that is involved in construction, installation, real estate development, industrial equipment manufacturing, overseas business, investment and financing, and technical R&D. Also Read: Malawi’s Nyasa Big Bullets Secures Land for Stadium Construction The scope of the project involves reinforcement, restoration, and redecorating of the main stadium and the Tennis, Basketball & Volleyball courts, fitting the practicing field and pavilion with artificial turf, the renewal of drainage, and the renovation of the athletics track and hostel. The actual construction works are expected to begin in March and be completed in two years’ time. According to Dr. Kai-Kai, the stadium upon completion will serve as the country’s heart of excitement and a hub for the growth of sports for Sierra Leone’s people. He also praised the  People’s Republic of China and the Government for agreeing to fund the rehabilitation of the Freetown National Stadium with a US$ 40M grant, which, according to him, will bring the institution up to current world standards in the next two years. Also in attendance were the Project Coordinator GCIGC, Honorable Members of Parliament, The Board Chairman- National Sports Agency, Executive Director, Athletes of various sports disciplines, development partners among others.