Waterford Bay, a four-story, 243-unit multifamily complex at 380 Randolph Avenue in Street Paul, Minnesota, designed by BKV Group, a multidisciplinary design firm, has broken ground on construction. The company built the riverside neighborhood for client Stoneleigh Companies, who created it as one of St. Paul’s first opportunity zone developments, with the purpose of connecting the surrounding Mississippi River through a combination of public and private areas. The property offers public river access with the installation of a kayak/small boat launch, an expansion of the regional bike/walking route trail system, and a section of land given to the city for park space along the riverbank. Also Read: Construction begins on The Neighborhood in Mankato, Minnesota The 295,000-square-foot property is a partial-wrap residential idea with a parking structure in the middle and living units on three sides. In response to site restrictions, BKV Group used a lower three-storey facade along the river that transitions to four storeys along Randolph Street and the neighboring Mississippi River inlet. The top residential levels encircle two second-level courtyards divided by an amenity pavilion, forming an E-shaped design that separates the pool from the green roof. BKV Group used its full-service strategy to lead all architecture, structural, mechanical, and electrical engineering, interior design, and landscape architecture. The building itself is made up of micro-units, studios, one-bedroom, and two-bedroom apartments with high-end features such as 9-foot ceilings, hardwood-style flooring, and modern kitchens with shaker-style cabinets, quartz countertops, and stainless steel appliances. An outdoor pool and manicured amenity deck with a four-season porch, outdoor grilling stations, and fire pit couches are among the community features. Indoor facilities include a large fitness facility and yoga studio, a resident lounge, a business center, a rooftop clubroom with a demonstration kitchen, secure bicycle and kayak storage, a dog wash station, and an indoor parking garage with charging stations for electric vehicles.