Plans for a new multi-purpose outdoor Snider Hockey rink in the Kensington neighborhood of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, were unveiled recently by Snider Hockey and Flyers Charities during a pre-game event, which was hosted at the Well Fargo Center. The project will be carried out at the Scanlon Recreation Center located at 1099 E. Venango Street. In the first phase, a new rink will be constructed, as well as a sports wall at the Joseph Scanlon Recreation Center where security upgrades will also be carried out as part of the project. In addition, Snider Hockey will work with the Philadelphia Parks & Recreation Department (Parks and Rec) to renovate an existing playground. The entire cost of this initial phase of the Snider Hockey Rink Project, which is expected to be completed by early or mid-November, approximately 2 months from the initial plans, is estimated at US$ 1.2M. At the pregame event, Flyers Charities presented a US$ 400,000 check to the club to support the groundbreaking of its new Snider Hockey rink. According to Valerie Camillo, the President of Business operations at Philadelphia Flyers, this donation is one of the largest charitable contributions the organization has ever made, and it shows the commitment of Flyers to Philadelphia. Snider Hockey’s President, Scott Tharp on the other hand explained that the goal of the  Snider Hockey rink project was to achieve a deeper sense of collective commitment to the children, youth, and families in this community. Tharp pointed out that through the partnerships with Flyers, Philadelphia Parks & Rec, and the office of Councilwoman Sanchez, Snider Hockey is able to expand on the year-round structured recreational, academic, and life-enrichment services, which it provides on a daily basis. Also Read $14m Skills Center Collaborative facility coming to Tampa Bay in 2022 He said this new hockey rink would serve as an introductory pathway to get more kids involved in hockey and keep them away from undesirable vices during after-school hours. The commissioner for Philadelphia Parks and Recreation, Kathryn Ott Lovell, praised Flyers Charities for investing in the Snider Hockey rink project, which would have a great impact on the Joseph Scanlon Recreation Center and the youth it serves. She mentioned that these investments celebrated today would lead to the expansion of fun, safe and accessible youth recreation in Kensington.