Plans are underway for the development of a new Merritt RDU Business Park on a 142-acre site in Cary, North Carolina. The chosen site for the new Merritt RDU Business Park is a three parcel property, located at 4960 Nelson Road and about 3 miles from the RDU International Airport in Cary. The Maryland-based developer, Merritt Properties purchased the site recently for US$ 9M, with the aim of building about 738,750 square feet of industrial space across a dozen or more buildings. This will be the company’s sixth and largest speculative industrial development in the state. Construction on the first phase of the Merritt RDU Business Park, the preleasing for space of which is currently in progress, is expected to begin by the first quarter of 2023. This phase will consist of three buildings, which will be developed on the western side of the project’s site, around the corner of Pleasant Grove Church Road and Nelson Road. Also Read: Construction of Hampstead Bypass to begin soon, North Carolina At full build-out, the Merritt RDU Business Park will feature 13 single-story buildings, between the ranges of 8,400 and 108,225 square feet. The industrial park will also provide leasable bays starting from 1,500 square feet, clear heights ranging from 18 to 32 feet, rear-loaded dock and drive-in functionalities, and free surface parking. According to the Senior Managing Director of Merritt Properties, Keith Wallace, the new Merritt RDU Business Park would bring a  flex/light industrial product into the market, which is designed to meet the diverse needs of the industry and also enable the company to cater for businesses of all sizes. Wallace also said that the new industrial park would serve the majority of the region’s diverse manufacturing, distribution and warehousing needs. Harold Weinbrecht, the Mayor of Cary, on the other hand, praised the company for investing in Cary and pointed out that the location of this new Merritt RDU Business Park, was in close proximity to RDU Airport and Interstate 40, making it an amazing place for companies in need of such warehousing and distribution services. Weinbrecht further said that he was looking forward to this new development in the northwest part of Cary.