With a total investment of more than US$ 285.81M, Modon Developments,  an innovative real estate development, and management company based in Egypt is ready to construct the Green River Tower in New Administrative Capital (NAC), a large-scale project of a new capital city in the North African country. The Green River Tower is the real estate developer’s fifth and most recent development. It is seen as a continuation of the real estate companys’ extensive portfolio, since its debut in the Egyptian market last year with the launch of a number of projects, especially in the NAC. According to Ahmed Osama, the CEO of Modon Developments, the company’s mindset is based on Egyptian, Emirati, and Kuwaiti expertise with over 30 years of experience in the building and construction industry. The company has reportedly constructed well over 80 projects and residential compounds throughout Egypt, as well as a number of projects in the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. Read also: Kigali Green City Project Updates, Rwanda The Green River Tower in New Administrative Capital is spread out across 60,000 square meters and rises to a height of 30 storeys. It will be run by a number of major hotel management businesses and will include administrative and commercial sections. Also Read: Vivid Tower Project in Egypt’s New Administrative Capital launched According to Osama, the Green River Tower in the New Administrative Capital will take four years to complete, and in keeping with its serious and committed approach, Modon Developments intends to begin the delivery process before the contracting deadline. The CEO also said that the phase that would be completed this month is over 15,000 square meters, with the administrative component of the project totaling over 20,000 square meters. He went on to explain that the office spaces range from 35 to 1,000 square meters to meet the demands of different businesses and that the commercial portion of the project spans 13,000 square meters, with 20,000 square meters set aside for residential units. Modon Developments is also looking to draw worldwide trademarks and companies to the project, which was planned by senior specialists at DMA for Designs and Engineering Consultancy. The firm has extensive expertise in developing big projects in Egypt and the Middle East.