Plans were unveiled recently for the construction of “Sounders FC Center at Longacres” in South Renton, a city in King County, Washington, and an inner-ring suburb of Seattle.  Developed by Washington-based Seattle Sounders, the New Sounders FC Center will be built at the site of the former Boeing Commercial Airplanes headquarters that is in close proximity to the club’s current facility at the Starfire Sports Complex in Longacres. The project involves the construction of four full-size training pitches, two of which will be natural grass and the other two made of artificial turf. In addition, a 50,000 square-foot space will be provided for both the club’s front office personnel and soccer operations, along with a clubhouse, a gym, and space for technical staff. Also Read US$ 120M Jaguars Sports Performance Center to be built in Jacksonville Upon completion, in time for the 2024 season, the Sounders FC Center at Longacres will house the club’s new headquarters and its entire soccer and business ecosystem. This facility could increase Seattle’s chances of hosting games during the 2026 FIFA World Cup. The majority owner, Adrian Hanauer, and the Sounders ownership group formed a partnership with Unico Properties to transform over 40,000 square feet of the former Boeing HQ, which will be used as part of the new Sounders FC Center at Longacres project. Renovations and designs of the property will be handled by the Kansas-based Generator Studio, who recently oversaw the development of Seattle Kraken’s Community Iceplex in Northgate. Adrian Hanauer mentioned that the partnership with Unico Properties is a key factor, as the club takes its first step towards the development of the new Sounders FC Center. Hanauer also stated that their organization has invested a great deal of time and thoughtfulness into the process of selecting an ideal site, which would become a new home for the team and the greater community. He pointed out that the Longacres location was brimming with Pacific Northwest history, which makes it a  great place for the Sounders team to plant their flag and create a home for the next 50 years.