Due to the deteriorating quality of the structures, the previous health facility, La Polyclinic, was demolished in March 2020, with an aim of replacing it with the La General Hospital project. The government had been criticized by the Minority in Parliament and the people of La and its surroundings due to delays in the construction of the Hospital. Zakaria Ewuntomah, the foreman in charge of the construction project, recently said that work had begun and will be finalized in three years. With construction equipment arriving at the La General Hospital project site two weeks prior, Mr. Ewuntomah said that they had started clearing the ground and making demarcations. With a contract of three years, he added that the rest of the building material had not been brought to the site and they were working while waiting for the rest to arrive. Read also: Bolgatanga East District Hospital Construction Work Gets Underway Dr. Nsiah-Asare Anthony Nsiah Asare, President Nana Akufo-Presidential Addo’s Advisor on Health, recently claimed that due to delays, the La General Hospital project will not be completed by the August 2022 deadline, although the government will make attempts to hasten up the construction work. He added that the hospital is will provide significantly more health services to the inhabitants of La and the neighboring areas once the project is completed. However, several locals also claimed that it was too early to celebrate since they doubted the government’s willingness to deliver the work. Undertaken by Poly Changda, a Chinese company, it is said that the La General Hospital project is expected to be funded by a credit facility from Standard Chartered Bank in the United Kingdom, as well as an export credit guarantee from Sinosure which will add up to €68 million-plus a €3,860,349.18. It is said that the facility will be converted into a 160-bed facility with an outpatient department, inpatient wards, maternity, and neonatal services, accident and emergency unit, a surgical unit with four theatres, public health department, pharmacy unit, laboratory, administration, X-ray room, imaging area with CT Scan, ultrasound, fluoroscopy, and physiotherapy unit, mammography units, and a mortuary once the project is completed.