Scotland’s First Passivhaus High School is set for construction at Currie Community High School, a six-year comprehensive school serving the south-west of the City of Edinburgh, following the approval of the plans for the project by Edinburgh City Council planners. With Kier Group plc, a British construction, services, and property group active in building and civil engineering, support services, and the private finance initiative as the contractor, the implementation of the project is planned to begin in the summer and be completed in 2024 at an estimated cost of slightly over US$ 79M. Read also: Plans Approved for Student’s Accommodation Scheme in West London Upon completion, Scotland’s First Passivhaus High School will be the country’s first Passivhaus-designed secondary school, setting the norm for energy use across school grounds. The larger campus will become a thriving community center for the Pentland area. Comprising wellness, new leisure, a fitness hub, and one of the UK’s first Passivhaus swimming pools, as well as a community library and a café, Scotland’s First Passivhaus High School, will be the country’s first Passivhaus-designed secondary school, setting the norm for energy use across school grounds.  Plans also call for an outdoor hub with informal play areas, a sensory garden, and public allotments, with school rooms meant to be open to the public after hours. These will make the school a thriving community center for the Pentland area. Furthermore, the three-story classroom block includes laboratories, culinary technology, and creative arts performance rooms. The City of Edinburgh Council‘s Planning Convener, Councillor Neil Gardiner applauded the decision to approve the planning application for the new Currie Community High School saying that the decision will help offer the neighborhood a cutting-edge sustainable high school, as well as sports and community amenities that will fulfill both future educational and environmental needs. The designs for Scotland’s first Passivhaus high school will include a number of novel features, with energy efficiency at the forefront. As a result, the new campus will be the first in Scotland to meet Passivhaus standards, contributing to Edinburgh’s objective of achieving net-zero emissions by 2030.