DMB Development, an Arizona-based investment company in collaboration with Schlegel Capital and The Beaumont Group plan to construct a total of 15,663 homes dubbed The Tapestry housing development in Hesperia, California. The project, which also involves the development of 700,000 square feet of retail and commercial space, will be constructed on 9,366 acres site located in the Mojave River Valley. The Tapestry footprint is roughly bounded by State Route 173 to the south, Summit Valley Road to the north, Arrowhead Lake Road to the east, and the Hesperia city line to the west. Also Read: CNU Teaching Hospital Project to be Developed at Site of Former Kings Arena in Sacramento, California Two sections of Phase One extend north beyond Summit Valley Road, one reaching Ranchero Road just east of Rancho Middle School and the other ending on Krystal Drive, just south of Krystal School of Science, Math, and Technology. Parks and natural open spaces have been conserved on more than half of the whole property, which at a height of 3,200 feet will offer views of the Angeles and San Bernardino national forests. The delivery of the 5,663-Home Tapestry Housing is expected in at least two decades upon which it will double the city’s population of 94,000 people. The Tapestry housing development project comes nearly five years after the Hesperia City Council overwhelmingly authorized the project despite widespread objections from residents and community groups. The settlement, reached between Terra Verde and the Center for Biological Diversity, the San Bernardino Valley Audubon Society, and the Sierra Club, included the removal of 533 homes in the southern Grass Valley Village area, which Ohanian said amounted to a loss of nearly US$ 50M in project value. By removing Grass Valley, 1,060 acres of open space were created for wildlife and the arroyo toad, as well as many habitat upgrades and corridors that allow species to migrate around and beneath highways. With Tapestry’s scope modified to include fewer houses, the estimated population of almost 50,000 has been reduced by about 1,800 persons and will roughly mirror Terra Verde’s earlier Rancho Las Flores project, which Terra Verde obtained in a bankruptcy sale nearly nine years ago.