To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video The second phase of the Falcon Island Project has been unveiled. The residential project is located within the Hamra Village residential community. The project follows the successful launch of phase 1 of the entire development. The first phase features two, three, and four-bedroom townhouses. Moreover, the prices for the units start from $326.9 thousand. Of which, have all been sold out. The second phase of the project will feature an inventory of 127 units. These units will include semi-attached townhouses accompanied by canal views. Additionally, stand-alone sea view villas will be available. Also Read: Design Consultant Appointed for Wynn Resort Project in Ras Al Khaimah, UAE The design of the homes is confirmed to embrace a conscious and eco-friendly approach. Hence, the project will utilize innovative and environmentally friendly initiatives. These will include leveraging certified green products as well as low-emission materials. Additionally, the project will also tap solar power. Furthermore, each home will possess a dedicated station for charging electric cars and buggies. Moreover, the project is within a 3-mile corridor to establishments such as Waldorf Astoria Ras Al Khaimah. It is also adjacent to a world-class and reputable golf course. The Falcon Island Project will offer investors beneficial and flexible payment options. These will also include upfront post-handover plans. Phase 2 of the project has been rolled out by the leading lifestyle developer and investment firm in Ras Al Khaimah. Al Hamra confirmed that this development is a part of their strategic five-year roadmap. The Group CEO of Al Hamra also commented on the project. Benoy Kurien remarked that the strong international response to phase 1 is of great significance. He continued by saying that the response is a true reflection of the firm’s quality on long-term returns by Falcon Island. He concluded by saying that they are confident phase 2 will receive a similar response. Furthermore, the firm noted that from 2023 to 2027 they aim to drive sustained growth through projects. Reported earlier March 2022  Read Also Agreement Signed for Development of 1st Methanol Production Facility in UAE The Falcon Island Residential Project will offer its residents an exclusive, vibrant and secure community that has been well designed for holiday trips, as well as private living. The site can be accessed via both sea and land, and there are docking facilities available for yachts and boats as well as ample spaces for cars. Al Hamra expressed that they have always been focused on the investment and development of upscale lifestyle experiences and services and products that exceed expectations. The developer revealed that the Falcon Island Residential Project, which will be implemented in phases, is projected to be completed within the next 2 years from its launch. The north island will be unveiled as the project’s first phase which will consist of 240 villas that would range from one bedroom to seven ensuite bedroom units. The villas will offer residents between 120 square meters and 650 square meters of living space. The villas will also be within well-landscaped green plots that reach up to 1,000 m2, with available options for private pools alongside exclusive beach access. CEO, Benoy Kurien, explained that the Falcon Island Residential Project aims to bring forth an extraordinary take on the everyday essential offering exclusivity in every possible way. The highlight of the project is that 70% of the island will be dedicated to open spaces.