The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) recently began the construction of The CIBN Bankers Hall, a fully-equipped 160-seater lecture theater at the Rivers State University, Port Harcourt, which will be equipped with cutting-edge technology. The institution reaffirmed its commitment to improving banking and finance education in Nigeria by injecting professionalism into course teaching and learning. Read also: Construction to Resume at National University of Science and Technology (Nust) in Zimbabwe Dr. Bayo Olugbemi, who spoke at the CIBN Bankers Hall groundbreaking event on Monday, said the CIBN Bankers Hall project would be ready for commissioning before the end of his term as President/Chairman of the Institute’s Council in May 2022. On May 23rd, 2017, a linkage program was launched by the institute at Rivers State University. This was to improve the performance of the country’s banking and finance graduates. The scheme includes 75 tertiary institutions. According to the CIBN President, the Institute’s Governing Council resolved to establish legacy projects in six institutions across Nigeria’s six geopolitical zones in order to deepen collaboration with universities. CIBN President stated that Rivers State University was chosen as one of the beneficiaries of the legacy projects purely on merit. Following a rigorous and strong evidence-based evidence-based appraisal process, the university was named the best linkage school in the South-South region. He also claimed that the legacy project that CIBN is leaving to Rivers State University is a 160-seat lecture theater that will be fully furnished and equipped with cutting-edge technology. He added that the CIBN Bankers Hall structure will serve as a melting pot for future-ready bankers’ training and development. Prof. Nlerum Okogbule, RSU’s Vice-Chancellor, stated that this was the first time an institute had constructed its own hall on campus. The Vice-Chancellor stated that they had recognized the importance of cohesiveness, and they were eager to support them in the course of their task. He also added that the university was guaranteeing that it would work with them to complete the project as quickly as possible, complementing what the institution was doing in the industry.