New road surface on the WestConnex M4-M5 Link Tunnels, which are a part of the 33-kilometer predominantly underground motorway scheme in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, dubbed WestConnex, has been installed. This milestone opens the path for the completion of the 7.5km freeway between Haberfield and St Peters that according to NSW Premier Dominic Perrottet would reduce travel times and give more dependable route times for motorists. Perrottet explained that with the road paving, excavation, and tunnel breakthroughs completed, the last of the road headers have packed up and departed the M4-M5 Link Tunnels site, allowing them to proceed into the last stages of development before the tunnels open to traffic. Also Read: Western Sydney International (Nancy-Bird Walton) Airport, Australia When completed the tunnels will shorten travel times between Parramatta and Sydney Airport by up to 40 minutes by avoiding up to 52 sets of traffic signals. With the new link’s capacity of up to 100,000 cars per day, this vital project will also help improve Sydney’s road network, allowing more people to get to where they need to go faster and relieving congestion on local roads. The Hon Paul Fletcher MP, Federal Minister for Communications, Urban Infrastructure, Cities, and the Arts, stated that the completion of the WestConnex’s “missing link” will dramatically reduce traffic and heavy vehicles on congested local streets such as Parramatta Road. People are already benefiting from the project even before its completion. To date, around 10,000 employees have been working on the M4-M5 Link Tunnels, with approximately 40% of them coming from Western Sydney. The last section of the 33-kilometer world-class highway which also contains new parks and open spaces, as well as urban artworks and 23 kilometers of new and enhanced pedestrian and bike pathways, is presently being built, while construction on the Rozelle Interchange continues. These works are expected to be completed next year simultaneously. Andrew Head, Transurban Group Executive for WestConnex, stated that the initial portions of WestConnex are already lowering travel times and enhancing safety and livability. “With 40% of Sydney residents set to live within five kilometers of WestConnex over the next decade, this project will alter the way we move as part of the city’s mobility revolution,” explained Head.