Located in the city of Makkah, Saudi Arabia, Jabal Omar Development is a multi-use real estate mega development project that is within reasonable walking distance of the Grand Mosque of Makkah. The city is where visitors and Muslim pilgrims often come in search of harmony and peace. The project blends innovation and tradition through the choice to preserve the Islamic architectural style with the infusion of modern design. Its main aim is to offer a luxurious atmosphere as well as a distinctive design that makes guests feel at peace, comfort, and tranquility. With a built-up area of 2.5 million square meters, the Jabal Omar development project in Makkah includes the construction of a total of 38 towers which will be home to 16 international hotels with four and five-star statuses. When completed and in full operation, the hotels are projected to be within the capacity to host up to 34,000 guests annually. In addition to the hotels, the development which is being carried out in phases will also consist of an array of apartments, malls, as well as residential units. The first phase of the project, consisting of 4 structural bases accommodating 10 hospitality and residential towers in addition to 10 Luxurious Penthouses, and commercial spaces with a total built area of 26,959.26 square meters served with 592 parking spaces, is already complete. Also Read: Financial Close Attained For Red Sea Multi-Utilities Project in Saudi Arabia The total construction area for the first phase, which was launched during the first quarter of 2017 in the presence of the Advisor to the Custodian of the Two Grand Mosques and The Prince of Makkah Prince Khalid Al-Faisal, is approximately 517,102.07 square meters. The second, third, and fourth phases of the Jabal Omar development are currently in advanced stages of development. They are 78.27%, 86.9%, and 63.31% complete respectively. Briefly described, the Jabal Omar Development is a monumental cluster of hotel-operated units and apartments that are open to investment from interested and potential buyers. Since the project neighbors the Grand mosque, a part of the Jabal Omar hotel’s goals involves providing true hospitality as it is not just an important arabinan virtue but also an attribute and display of good faith.