UAE-based developer, Dubai South Properties has selected Al Kharafi Construction to develop the US$ 245M Pulse Beachfront Villa community that features 788 residential units which are available in three bedrooms, four bedrooms, and five bedrooms townhouses and villas. The Pulse Beachfront Villa community project features units that range from 2,600 square feet to 4,800 square feet of spacious living space. Located in Dubai’s south residential district, the project will also include private gardens that range from 1,700 square feet to 5,00 square feet. All the villas in the Pulse Beachfront Villa community project include a fully equipped closed kitchen, a house manager’s room, spacious living room, master bedrooms, three private parking spaces, rooftops, and study rooms. The project also includes an approximately 200-meter-wide artificial beach lagoon that is accompanied by a half Olympic swimming pool. Read Also 6,200 Housing Units Launched at West Village Project in Dubai, UAE The community will also feature amenities that include but are not limited to a gym, climbing walls, a fitness club, a yoga garden, studios for aerobics, a squash tennis court, a private lounge, a water park, and a club dedicated for children. The amenities and facilities are revealed to be in alignment with Dubai South’s mission to elevate and enhance the lifestyle of the country’s residents across all its developments. The construction plans for the Pulse Beachfront Villa community project have been scheduled by Dubai South Properties to begin in the second quarter of this year. The completion of the initial phases has been scheduled for completion by the third quarter of 2024. A couple of months after the launch of the project onto the freehold market, Dubai South Properties were able to successfully sell out 788 residential townhouses and villas. A spokesperson for Dubai South Properties revealed that the successful selling of the units of the projects confirmed that customers and investors trust in the ability to deliver on the company’s promises.