The Syrah Resources Limited (Syrah) Board of Directors has approved the final investment decision for its Balama Graphite Projects Solar-Hybrid System in Mozambique. This comes following the execution of a memorandum of understanding with Solar Century Africa Limited (“Solar century Africa”) in December 2020 and the subsequent completion of the design, detailed engineering, procurement, structuring and arrangement of the funding for the facility. CrossBoundary Energy (CBE) provided funding for the project, which will be delivered through a build-own-operate-transfer (“BOOT”) arrangement that includes a 10-year operating lease and an operating and maintenance contract with a Mozambique-incorporated project company that will be wholly owned by CBE. This project business will build, own, and operate the solar battery system during the BOOT period. The solar battery system’s operations and ownership will be handed to Syrah at no cost at the conclusion of the 10-year BOOT period. Solarcentury Africa will continue to collaborate closely with Syrah and CBE throughout the building, delivery, and installation of the solar battery system and up to the commercial operation, which is expected to be commissioned and operational by the end of March 2023. Also Read: Construction of the Mozambique-Malawi Power Transmission Link Begins Syrah Resources chose an 11.25MWp solar photovoltaic (PV) project in conjunction with an 8.5MW/MWh battery energy storage system to be incorporated into Balama’s existing 15MW on-site diesel power production facility that is owned and controlled entirely by Syrah. Extensive due diligence was performed on the selection of equipment and providers of solar PV modules, battery energy storage technology, and a hybrid control system. This technology was first chosen as a low-risk power alternative for the Balama project. On average, the solar battery system will provide roughly 35% of Balama’s site power requirements, resulting in a 35% decrease in diesel needed for power generation. The solar battery system will be able to deliver up to 100% of Balama’s electricity needs during peak daylight hours. Shaun Verner, the Managing Director and CEO of Syrah, stated that the implementation of a large-scale solar and battery hybrid power system at Balama is projected to lower operational costs and boost the ESG credentials of the mine’s natural graphite products. This initiative is a first step toward lowering the global warming potential of Balama and the Vidalia active anode material factory in Louisiana, USA. The solar battery system is expected to save roughly $8 per tonne of C1 at a 15kt per month production rate, which is factored into Balama C1 cash cost (FOB Nacala) projection of $430–470 per tonne at a 15kt per month production rate. Due to Syrah’s cheap upfront capital costs, fixed expenses under the 10-year BOOT agreement, and considerable cost savings from reduced diesel usage, the project is expected to yield a good return on capital. The solar battery system will either lessen the potential for global warming or create carbon equivalent emissions from Balama natural graphite products. According to Syrah’s independent lifecycle study, the solar battery system will lower the global warming potential of producing natural graphite from the Balama mine and shipping it to Nacala port by 12.5%, from 0.48kg to 0.42kg CO2 equivalent per 1kg natural graphite. Over the life of the operation, the solar battery system is expected to lower Balama’s global warming potential by 18kt CO2 equivalent per year on average. Jan 2021 An 11.2MW solar-hybrid system is planned for Syrah Resources‘ Balama graphite project in Cabo Delgado Province in Mozambique. The Australian mining company has already signed a public-private partnership (PPP) agreement with Solar Century to implement the project on a build, own, operate, and transfer method. Solar Century will also provide the installation with an 8.5MWh battery-based electricity storage system which will supply electricity to the graphite mine, hence boosting supply to its facilities. Apart from reducing the project’s power costs, the solar-hybrid system is expected to reduce Carbon dioxide emissions significantly. According to Shaun Verner, Managing Director and CEO of Syrah Resources, the future solar hybrid power plant will reinforce the existing 15MW Balama power plant which is running on diesel, comprised of seven 2.2MW generators. “It would also help reduce the greenhouse gases emitted by the mining company Syrah Resources in Mozambique, one of the countries most affected by climate change in Africa,” he added. Also Read: Essor A2E solar project in the Democratic Republic of Congo at finance stage The Balama graphite operation in Mozambique is a globally significant natural graphite resource. Balama’s 50+ year mine life and high reserve grade (16% total graphitic carbon) will enable the Company to participate in the long term growth of the electric vehicle industry. The plant has a capacity of 2Mtpa ore throughput, and 350ktpa graphite concentrate, which is mined through conventional means that include crushing, grinding, flotation, filtration, drying, and screening and bagging. Water for Balama is supplied from the Chipembe Dam which has a capacity of approximately 25 million m3 and is located 12km away. The project has facilities that include Medical and Emergency Response Centers, Accommodation Village and a Canteen.