During a meeting chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved a total of slightly over US$ 70M for Nigeria’s roads augmentation. According to the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, following the weekly Council meeting the FEC had approved the three memos he had presented. The first one of the memos according to Fashola was for the extension of the contract for the Zaria-Sokoto-Birnin-Kebbi highway from Zaria to Funtua. The augmentation was for US$ 22.64M, bringing the total contract sum to roughly US$ 40.6M. Also Read: Minna-Baro Railway in Nigeria to Undergo US$ 192M Rehabilitation Project The road augmentation, according to the Minister of Works and Housing, was to expand the construction from 26 kilometers to 64 kilometers, develop the pavement from a laterite-based pavement to a cement-based, concrete mixed, stone-base pavement, and provide efficient drainage works to accommodate increasing rain flow and flooding trends. The ministry presented the second memorandum on behalf of FERMA for the restoration of the Kwara-Peta-Milda Road in Borno at slightly over US$ 15M, he said. The Council also approved close to US$ 25.41M for the purchase of lie detectors and night goggles for the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). Messrs Zettabytes Technologies Limited will supply the eye-scanning lie detectors for a sum of US$ 1.2M, inclusive of 7.5 percent VAT, within a 90-day period. The council also approved US$ 1.4M for the purchase of Digital Night Vision Goggles to boost the agency’s night operations. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, presented this memo on behalf of the NDLEA. They also presented another one on the reconstruction of the Uturu-Isiukwuato-Akara road in Abia State at a cost of US$ 32.7M. In addition to the aforementioned, the council also authorized infrastructure contracts for the Nigerian Export Processing Zones Authority in one of the six special commercial regions that the Export Processing Zones Authority was developing for the special economic zones in Lekki, according to Trade and Investments Minister Otunba Niyi Adebayo. This infrastructure included a power plant and an access road at the Lekki Export Processing Zone. The cost of the projects is approximately US$ 7.43M.