A $400 million Lawrence office tower is set to break ground, as the first development of the Chicago-based Riverside Investment & Development Co. in Denver, Colorado. According to the developers, this 30 story high-rise building located at 1900 Lawrence, will include over 700,000 square feet of office space and 10,000 square feet of ground-floor retail components, with its delivery date is scheduled for the second quarter of 2024. Vice President Chris Payne of Riverside, mentioned that the Lawrence office tower project in Denver, has been designed with a focus on next generation innovations in health and wellness, sustainability, technology, and amenity programming. Also Read Construction of New MetroNational Office Building Begins, Houston Payne also pointed out that despite the challenges various businesses faced  mid-pandemic, this office tower project had the potential to create tremendous opportunities for existing and new-to-market (business) tenants. He explained that the new office building would be developed as a flexible speculative space, with the aim of enhancing creativity, collaboration and teamwork for workers, which is unattainable in a remote environment. Designs for the Lawrence office tower will include private tenant terraces, floor-to-ceiling glass, multi-purpose conference facilities, fitness center, a tenant lounge and tenants will have direct access to a 10,000-square-foot, landscaped outdoor terrace. In addition, the building also provides post-pandemic features such as hospital-grade ventilation systems and touchless elevators. According to Payne, none of the other office buildings in the area have private outdoor spaces and this new Lawrence office tower would also provide tenants with well-above-code minimum fresh air requirements. He said the design and technology used for the building ensures that there will be no recirculating air between floors, and only dedicated fresh air would be brought in at all times. Jamie Roupp, the JLL Managing Director, who is in charge of handling the leasing arrangements for the Lawrence office tower, also pointed out that office building would be in high demand among top employers, due to its proximity to LoDo, the building’s size, scale, and views offered. Other companies involved in developing the Lawrence office tower project include Convexity Properties and Canyon Partners Real Estate LLC, the partner companies working with the developers on the project; Goettsch Partners, serving as the architect; and Hensel Phelps, as the general contractor.