Angels Landing, a US$ 1.5bn mixed-use skyscraper in downtown Los Angeles, is expected to begin construction within the next two years. The Angels Landing complex, located at Fourth and Hill streets in downtown Bunker Hill, is adjacent to the Angels Flight railway, a historic municipal monument. Also Read: Brightline West, Los Angeles to Vegas High-Speed Rail Project Updates The incline-sitting mega-development will comprise two distinct buildings, one 854 feet and 88 storeys tall and the other almost 500 feet and 42 stories. The 1.2 million-square-foot project on a 2.24-acre property will include two luxury hotels, condos, flats, retail stores, restaurants, and even a charter primary school once completed. The land will also have a plaza with a public park that will be privately managed. In 2017, MacFarlane Partners, Peebles Corp., and Claridge Properties beat over numerous big wigs to develop the city-owned site. According to MacFarlane, the joint venture developers have prioritized diversity, equity, and inclusiveness as they create the project. According to MacFarlane, their team has committed to a goal of at least 30% minority and women-owned companies for the project’s development. According to BJH Advisors, the developers anticipate that more than 8,300 temporary employment will be produced during the building of Angels Landing and more than 800 permanent ones will be created after it is completed downtown. The developers had hoped to complete Angels Landing by 2024, but the lengthy CEQA procedure and the coronavirus epidemic pushed the project back. “Finally, after five years, the project has been fully authorized. We followed [the] CEQA [California Environmental Quality Act] procedure. It’s finished and sealed. We are now putting the finishing touches on the project and beginning pre-development “MacFarlane Partners’ chairman and CEO, Victor MacFarlane, made a statement. MacFarlane stated that they expect to complete the project by the Los Angeles Olympic Games in 2028. The project is being designed by Handel Architects.