Leading cement manufacturer Bamburi Cement has entered the specialized mortar market with its launch of Bamburi TectorCeram SETI 300, a ready-to-use tile adhesive. The move is in line the company’s vision to provide innovative solutions for the construction industry. Designed for placement of porous tiles including ceramic, terracotta, earthenware and natural stone tiles, Bamburi TectorCeram SETI 300 is a cementitious mortar product produced from carefully sourced raw materials, including chemical admixtures, cement and sand. “We are delighted to tap into the growing demand for specialty mortar products such as tile adhesives”, said Seddiq Hassani, Bamburi Cement Managing Director. “As a champion for innovation in construction, Bamburi Cement is well-positioned to develop and present yet another construction solution to resolve challenges in the tiling sector.” Bamburi Cement’s Head of Innovation and Technical Services Fidelis Sakwa said that the introduction of the new product into the market was in response to consumer needs and alignment with the global construction trends in modern tiling which require more specialized tile adhesive solutions. “Innovation is a key lever in the company’s Building for Growth strategy and this milestone is a result of continuous investment in research and development coupled with paying attention to customer’s needs,” said Sakwa. The company’s Sales Director Kanyi Gitonga noted that one of the challenges in the building industry today is the “popping out”, cracking and falling of tiles. “Through the support of the Holcim Group research centre in France, in conjunction with our Bamburi team, we have specially formulated Bamburi SETI 300 to address this”, he said. The new tile adhesive is suitable for interior tiling solutions such as floors and walls and only requires the addition of water on site. Its advanced formulation and creamy workability significantly increases the bonding strength and speeds up construction work. The product is already available in hardware shops countrywide and will also be available elsewhere in the region through Bamburi’s extensive distribution network.  