Following the approval of planning clearance, Bam Nuttall can now commence construction on the M54-M6 link road, a motorway link between the M54 and M6. Six months after deferring his original decision, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps approved National Highways’ bid for a connection road. The M54-M6 link road is estimated to cost between £175 million and £200 million. According to National Highways, it is required to provide greater capacity and ease traffic congestion on the A460, A449, and A5, resulting in more consistent journey times for passengers. The scheme entails a new 2.5-kilometer-long link road connecting the M54 Junction 1 and the M6 Junction 11; a new interchange at M54 Junction 1 to offer direct access to and from the M54 and the new link road, as well as to retain linkages to the local road network, realignment of Hilton Lane over the new connecting road; and a new intersection at M6 Junction 11, as well as enhancements to junction capacity and alterations to Mill Lane. Read also: Firms Selected for A417 Upgrade Between Gloucester and Swindon Highways England submitted the application to the Planning Inspectorate for assessment on 31 January 2020, and it was approved for examination on 28 February 2020. Shapps was supposed to rule on the case in October 2021, however, he postponed his decision owing to “environmental reasons.” The inspectorate instructed Shapps in its recommendation report to only approve the development-consent order if he was satisfied that the proposals would not contravene the Sixth Carbon Budget, as determined by the UK’s Climate Change Committee, which was announced after inspectors completed their investigation. Shapps reached his judgment after concluding that it was “extremely unlikely that the impact of a road project will, in isolation, damage the government’s ability to meet its carbon-reduction-plan targets.” According to the decision letter, the connecting road would contribute between 0.0061 and 0.0082 percent of the carbon budget.