Met-Ed and MAIT,  a First Energy company, are working on a 69-kV Shawnee-Walker Transmission Line project for the eastern region of Pennsylvania. The company identified the need for a new 69-kilovolt transmission line, after completing an evaluation of the existing electric system in the region. The Shawnee-Walker Transmission line project is intended to enhance the functionality of the current 34.5 KV electric system in eastern Pennsylvania by reducing its load. The proposed 69-kilovolt transmission line is expected to provide additional capacity for the area and also accommodate future growth. In addition, a direct transmission source will be provided from the transmission line to the four existing substations within the project’s vicinity to help minimize power outages. Also Read Florida Power &#038; Light Manatee Energy Storage Center The developers also carried out a detailed routing study to identify potential routes for the Shawnee-Walker Transmission line, which will be about 30 miles long. The selected routes were carefully evaluated to reduce the impact on property owners, environmentally sensitive areas, and communities. During the construction, the project will make use of utility corridors, parallel roadways, and existing right of way where feasible, to minimize the impact as much as possible; it also takes into account the desire for a unique diverse pathway for the new circuit, which will further improve reliability. The width of the new right-of-way required for the Shawnee-Walker Transmission line project might vary depending on the engineering designs and the terrain of the routes along the proposed transmission line. But generally, the right-of-way is expected to be about 60 feet wide; although, in steep regions, it could be made wider to accommodate the longer span. The project will also need adjacent tree rights, which will provide support and protect the transmission line from potential outages, as a result of falling trees and/or limbs. Additionally, property owners may also be contacted by field representatives to discuss the construction of temporary access roads needed during the construction phase. Construction on the project is scheduled to begin by June 2023, with a delivery date set for May 2025.