The Community Development Commission has authorized a TIF of $5.5 million and the sale of property for the Grace Manor Apartments, a new development at 3401 West Ogden Avenue in Chicago. East Lake Management and Grace at Jerusalem CDC collaborated on the project, which fronts W. Ogden Ave from S. Homan Ave to S. Trumbull Ave. Currently, the site serves as a parking lot for the nearby 10th District police station. Grace Manor Apartments will be a six-story mixed-use structure with 65 affordable housing apartments and ground-floor retail space. The residential unit mix will include 46 units offered at 60% AMI, comprising 22 one-bedroom and 24 two-bedroom variants. The remaining 19 rents will be filled through the CHA RAD program, which will provide 9 one-bedroom and 10 two-bedroom homes. Also Read: Fulton Tower, a 305 Residential Units Development in Chicago, Approved A fitness centre, laundry, rooftop terrace, package room, computer room, and on-site management will be among the tenant facilities. There will also be 18 parking places and a bike room. The building, designed by JGMA, is positioned to interact with the street on the edges while folding back to create an open plaza along the streetscape. The external plaza invites visitors and inhabitants to the building by providing relaxation along the urban edge. The structure rises 72 feet above the base level, providing emphasis on the ground floor while also allowing room for balconies on the higher stories. Chicago Department of Planning and Development (DPD), Chicago’s Department of Housing (DOH), and the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA) are all helping to support the low-cost Grace Manor development project in Chicago. With approvals from the Plan Commission, Committee on Zoning, and City Council, the proposal is one step closer to reality. The developers have received preliminary permission from the Community Development Commission for the property acquisition and TIF, and are currently awaiting complete approval from the City Council. There is currently no stated completion date.