Following the recent approval of proposals, the Kirkstall Corridor scheme, a £200 million-plus complex of over 1,400 homes will be developed on brownfield property west of Leeds city centre. Clarion Housing Group‘s development subsidiary, Latimer, has been given the go-ahead to alter the derelict 13-acre riverside land on Kirkstall Road. The project, the implementation of which will begin this summer, with a completion date of 2029, is the most recent of numerous ideas for the city’s Kirkstall Corridor property on the banks of the River Aire in Leeds, and it comes just days after Manchester developer Glenbrook submitted comprehensive plans for a 618-apartment build-to-rent scheme on the ribbon site. Latimer purchased a portion of the site in 2020 and plans to build 503 affordable homes, accounting for more than a third of all new homes built and exceeding the city’s minimum standards.  The larger Kirkstall Road development will include one, two, and three-bedroom flats spread across 11 buildings ranging in height from eight to seventeen storeys. There will also be 13 three-bedroom townhouses with private gardens, as well as a specific new student accommodation tower with 355 rooms for students attending one of the city’s four universities. Latimer’s master plan, developed by Broadway Malyan Architects, will include a new riverfront park, a river crossing, and a variety of creative and commercial zones for art, cafes, a food hall, independent stores, and public workspaces. Also Read: Contractor named for the SCAPE’s new student accommodation project in Leeds “We are happy to obtain the green light to transform a critical strategic site for Leeds that has remained undeveloped for more than 30 years. Our initiative will jump-start development along the Kirkstall Road corridor, resulting in a model and sustainable mixed-use community for the city. We want this development to set the standard for new housing in Leeds, including a significant number of affordable houses for those in greatest need,” said Richard Cook, Group Development Director at Clarion Housing Group.