Artificial Intelligence (AI) is gaining widespread adoption in many industries, and construction is no exception. In the U.S. alone, it’s predicted to grow at a compound annual growth rate of (CAGR) from 2019 to 2026 when it will be worth $2.1 billion. Here’s the big question: In what capacity is AI currently being deployed in the industry, and in what direction can we possibly be headed in the future? The most common uses for AI in today’s construction space are scheduling, budget planning, risk mitigation, and simulation of construction projects. Project managers can now simulate their project plans to see the possible outcomes in real-time, using construction simulation software like ALICE Technologies. This technology allows general contractors to optimize their project plans to save costs and mitigate possible slowdowns or delays. Whether now or in the future, one thing is clear: AI can greatly benefit the construction industry. Here are some of the most common examples of this: AI can be integrated into on-site security cameras to monitor for unsafe conditions or events. It can monitor equipment, tools, and materials and send out warnings if there is suspicious activity or theft. AI-enabled systems may also be deployed to detect unsafe behavior and practices from workers by using facial recognition technologies. AI, used in conjunction with Internet of Things (IoT) sensors, may be used to track site traffic in real-time. Based on the information received, it can perform a variety of tasks such as redirecting workers and machine operators to alternative routes to prevent delays or preventing a collision between machines. With the aid of sensors attached to machine parts, managers can leverage AI technology to detect faults in machines and monitor various conditions like the machines’ temperature, oil levels, and other critical factors. Based on these conditions they measure, these sensors can accurately predict machine breakdowns or malfunctions before they occur. AI thrives where there is data, and many companies are already using this to their advantage. AI-supported solutions can be used to analyze specific data to help managers of construction facilities make more informed decisions. For instance, some AI-sensors may be designed to detect unused parts of a building by tracking movements in these spaces, then automatically shut down the HVAC system in those areas, reducing energy costs in the process. In combination with IoT sensors, AI software may be used to recommend the best time for certain maintenance activities like cleaning air conditioner filters and changing electrical switches. Cost overrun is a term used in project management to describe when the total cost of a project overshoots its budget. This is quite common in the construction industry, especially where large and complex constructions are concerned. AI may be used to predict cost overruns based on metrics like the type of contract, project size, duration of the project, and inflation rate. Predictive models designed via Artificial Neural Networks can be used to envision realistic timelines based on historical data. Using AI, construction stakeholders can generate budget reports for previous projects in a particular area, highlight where the overruns came in, and design better and more rounded budgets for future projects. AI can also streamline supply chains to avoid delays in the arrival of materials on-site, theft of materials en route, and address the inability to locate materials of a certain quality. Stakeholders can leverage AI to design better project plans. AI-based software can help designers and project planners identify tasks or activities within the project’s scope that depend on each other and highlight how they should be done to save on cost, time, and resources. AI-based solutions can automatically and continuously update task and activity sequences and inform stakeholders of their respective roles at every point in time throughout the course of the project. AI-based tools may also be used to simulate project plans to help managers see the possible outcomes of these plans. With AI-based tools, project managers do not have to worry about changes manually incorporating changes to their project plans and schedules.. Some of these solutions, like ALICE Technologies, can resequence activities and update plans and schedules in only a few minutes. They analyze several options and provide general contractors with the most optimal project schedule and combination of resources. AI can help stakeholders in the construction industry forecast increases in prices of supplies like iron bars, sand, granite, and laterite. Based on historical price data and variables like inflation rates, it can forecast future prices of materials. Data can even be trained to make predictive models that find the relationship between the prices of different materials. This can help project managers and supervisors determine the best time to get these supplies. This is especially needed for long-term projects where the costs of supplies may change several times over the project’s duration. AI may also be connected to inventory to monitor incoming and outgoing supplies. It can identify shortages in supplies and automatically order a restock from a list of suppliers frequented by the manager. AI is already changing the construction industry in many ways and will only continue to  help improve productivity by optimizing project plans and budgets, taking over mundane tasks, and freeing up workers to do more productive tasks.     