Construction on the first phase of The Stacks in Washington DC has begun under a joint venture between Akridge, National Real Estate Advisors, Blue Coast Capital and Bridge Investment Group after Bank OZK approved a $367 million construction credit for the 2 million-square-foot mixed-use project. Cushman & Wakefield‘s William Collins, Bindi Shah, Marshall Scallan, and Shaun Weinberg negotiated the financing. The Stacks’ initial phase, whose construction schedule has not been announced, will consist of three rental residential buildings with a total of more than 1,100 units. When completed, the master-planned complex will include 2,000 residential units, two hotels, public parks and gathering places, and about 80,000 square feet of retail space. A range of unique working areas, as well as below-grade parking and loading, will be available at the property. The first phase of the Stacks in Washington DC project was designed by Gensler, Morris Adjmi Architects, Eric Colbert & Associates, Handel Architects, West 8, and Lee and Associates Inc. Cushman & Wakefield managing director Shaun Weinberg headed a team that assisted in the formation of the joint venture partnership. William Collins, Bindi Shah, and Marshall Scallan of the business worked with Weinberg to arrange construction funding. Also Read: Waterfront Station II Apartment Complex Under Construction in Washington “Akridge, National Real Estate Advisors, Bridge, and Blue Coast Capital form the ideal team to execute a successful project in the expanding Buzzard Point submarket, and market circumstances are ideal for the delivery of this iconic asset. This project will eventually become one of the top residential properties in the D.C. area,” commented David Sarner, executive vice president of originations at Bank OZK. “The Stacks’ walkable, community-centric architecture will elevate Buzzard Point’s distinct and growing character to new heights. We are excited to start this project with our new and old partners, and we are convinced it will be a genuine anchor to the Buzzard Point neighborhood,” said Adam Gooch, senior vice president at Akridge, in a prepared statement.