Lambeth councilors have approved plans for the construction of a massive new office and culture complex on the former ITV Studio site on London’s South Bank. Mitsubishi Estate and London developer CO—RE is planning a historic renovation of 72 Upper Ground. The center of the proposal, known as Project Vista, was designed by Make Architects and consists of a 26-story staggered office structure connected to two 13-story and 6-story towers. The complex will include cafes and restaurants, cultural venues, and open spaces in addition to 900,000 square feet of office space. The program will aim for net-zero carbon, as well as the highest BREEAM and WELL certifications. Two new public squares, a bustling ground floor, and walkways to a public rooftop terrace overlooking the Thames are central to the new designs. A new 75,000 sq ft arts and cultural innovation center, as well as new riverbank cafes and restaurants, will be located on the public-facing ground floor. In November 2019, ITV sold 72 Upper Ground to Mitsubishi Estate, which already had planning authority to renovate the site. Read also: Construction of 2GW Scotland-England HVDC Subsea Cable Approved  Lambeth officer Ben Oates introduced the planning application, describing the old 1970s building’s “unattractive elevations” and “defensive and unwelcoming presence.” He stated that the Mitsubishi proposal had “substantially developed” over the course of two years of conversations and that it “would deliver high-quality office floor space that prioritizes welfare, sustainability, and productivity for its future tenants.” Mr. Oates noted that the development’s massing was inspired by the requirement to avoid the protected view between Westminster Pier and St Paul’s Cathedral, as well as the necessity to preserve Somerset House’s setting. “Officers feel that the public benefits of the proposal outweigh the low degree of less than substantial harm to designated cultural objects that have been identified,” Mr. Oates stated at the end of his presentation recommending approval of the scheme. The iconic facility at the former ITV Studio site on London’s South Bank will require final clearance from London’s mayor.