Kasi Cloud Ltd., a Nigerian data firm, held a ground-breaking ceremony in Lekki, to kick off the construction of Kasi’s first data center in Lagos, a major African financial center and the economic hub of Lagos State and Nigeria. The firm, which mainly provides data center services intended to help build green interconnection facilities for cloud entities, claimed that it purchased approximately 4 hectares of land in the Maiyegun area of Lekki to develop the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) backed project. NSIA is a government investment institution established to oversee funds in excess of budgeted hydrocarbon income. Johnson Agogbua, co-founder and CEO of Kasi, stated that Kasi’s objective is to establish a digital platform to accelerate cloud and interconnect individuals, enterprises, and governmental institutions in Nigeria and Africa as a whole beginning in Lagos. He also added that they were honored to have His Excellency Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Governor of Lagos State, and NSIA CEO, Uche Orji, join them and the community to commemorate the historic groundbreaking ceremony of Kasi’s first data center. Mr. Orji, Chief Executive Officer of the NSIA, claimed that they appreciated Kasi for achieving such a significant milestone. He added that NSIA believes in the potential of digital infrastructure to act as an enabler and accelerator for innovation. The NSIA CEO also claimed that they expected the transformative impact of the infrastructure on the local tech space to reposition Nigeria. He also reckoned that the authority’s board and management were pleased to be a part of this progress. Read also: Meta Platform selects contractor for US$800m Temple Data Center in Texas Kasi says it is an objective to establish the country’s leading sustainable interconnection and data center platform for Africa, designed to support digital ecosystems and drive internet access for over a billion people, by trying to attract hyper scalers by resolving connectivity and scalability problems where others have been challenged. Modeled similarly to Silicon Valley technology parks, the campus in Lekki is meant to meet hyperscale requirements and standards. The $250 million campus will be one of the largest of its kind in Africa when fully constructed.