Plans are underway for the development of a massive $30 million Oolite Arts HQ in Miami’s Little River neighborhood, Florida. The new arts campus is being built by the Miami-based non-profit, Oolite Arts known for hosting exhibitions and providing free studio space for resident artists. Architectural renderings designed by Barozzi Veiga have been revealed for the new Oolite Arts HQ, which is scheduled to be opened by 2024. The 26,850 square foot complex will be situated at 75 N.W. 72nd St. in the flourishing arts district close to many artist studios, homes, and buildings. The new Oolite Arts HQ will house a theatre for lectures or films, two art classrooms, a maker space, a print studio, and offices for staff. The complex also features a community garden with seven entry points through a garden-lined walkway, an accessible rooftop, up to 21 artist studios for talented artists, and an exhibition gallery. The designs for the new Oolite Arts HQ also take into consideration several environmentally-conscious strategies which include harvesting rainwater, using vegetation to cool the space, adopting the use of skylights to illuminate specific areas, and making use of technologies such as solar chimneys and wind catchers to reduce energy use. These design features are aimed at achieving the LEED certification for the new arts complex. Also Read US$190 million poured into the Virginia Fine Arts Museum’s expansion Despite the energy-conscious design of the new Oolite Arts HQ, the project still focuses on the artist as the protagonist. The design allows for natural light to be diffused into specific areas, which provides spatial scenes where artists can realize their personal explorations, and at the same time, the experience is enhanced for visitors as well. This provided a balance between public and private by fostering community activity, while also inviting locals and artists to exchange new perspectives throughout the building’s interior. According to Barozzi, the new Oolite Arts HQ was planned to be a surprise for the artists and the community, showing off an exuberant garden behind the opaque concrete wall of the arts complex. The architects went for a design with an interior courtyard, which invites the public and incorporates rich greenery, coming in contrast to the sculptural design of the exterior facade.