Rosendin Renewable Energy Group (REG) and Tokyo Gas America are working together to reach the full capacity of their 500 MW (AC) Aktina Solar Project, which broke ground about two years ago in Texas. The Aktina Solar Project, which is the largest solar project in Texas involves the installation of 1.4 million solar modules across a 4,000 acres piece of land located approximately 87 miles southwest of Houston, at El Campo, is being carried out in phases, the first of which began generating power in mid-2021. The power production of the Aktina Solar Project is boosted by mounting bifacial solar panels over Genius TrackerTM single-axis solar tracker systems, from GameChange Solar. The solar plant also uses preassembled GameChange Solar SpeedClampsTM technology, which makes the installation process faster. Also Read Construction begins on a 35-MW Vanderbilt I Solar Farm in Bedford County The developers expect the Aktina Solar Project to achieve full capacity by the first half of this year. Once completed, the facility will produce enough electricity to power up to 100,000 homes each year. The electricity produced at the Aktina Solar Project will be distributed to the 345kV Hillje Substation, owned by CenterPoint Energy, and sold to the ERCOT (Electric Reliability Council of Texas) wholesale market. Rosendin Renewable Energy Group (REG) and Tokyo Gas America have engaged Jinko Solar, a Chinese company to be in charge of the manufacture and supply of the photovoltaic modules for the plant. Sukut Construction was subcontracted by Rosendin Electric Group to handle the installation of mechanical equipment while Origis Services was contracted by Tokyo Gas America to handle the operation and maintenance services of the solar project. A total of 500 employees and union contractors were recruited from the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers to build the solar farm. Reported earlier April 2021  Construction on the 500 MW Aktina Renewable Power Project has officially begun in southeastern Texas. Rosendin Renewable Energy Group (REG) has announced that they have broken ground on the largest solar power project in the state of Texas. The Aktina Renewable Power Project calls for the installation of 1.4 million solar modules across 4,000 acres in Wharton County, located outside the Houston Metro area. The solar power plant is expected to go online in sections as early as mid-2021 and the power generated at the plant will be sold to the ERCOT wholesale market. Rosendin has partnered with Japan’s largest city gas provider, Tokyo Gas America for the 500-MWAC/631-MWDC solar project. Also Read: 518MW wind and solar Helena Energy Center in Texas breaks ground For the Aktina Renewable Power Project, Rosendin hired 500 employees and union contractors with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) following all COVID-19 safety protocols. The team is currently comprised of over 30% women which significantly surpasses industry averages. “Rosendin has been working closely with Tokyo Gas America to construct the most highly anticipated solar project in one of the fastest-growing regions with an abundant solar resource. We are very excited to be working with such a forward-thinking partner that is committed to increasing renewable power generation in Texas and around the world,” said David Lincoln, Rosendin Senior Vice President, Rosendin Renewable Energy Group. “Tokyo Gas America chose to partner with Rosendin’s Renewable Energy Group because they align with developers, from the early stage through construction, to address unique challenges in the utility-scale solar industry,” said Ken Kiriishi, senior VP of Tokyo Gas America. “This collaborative approach and ability to secure a stable workforce gave us the confidence to launch the first American solar facility that we are taking from construction to commercial operation.” As an innovative company dedicated to inclusivity and equity, Rosendin offers a wide range of opportunities for growth potential to qualified professionals. 