Qiddiyah City is an entertainment megaproject that is currently under development in Al Qidiya, 45 km southwest of Riyadh in Saudi Arabia. Also Read: Sultan Palace Beach Retreat Development in Kikambala, Kilifi County, Kenya Plans for construction of this unique edifice featuring family-friendly theme parks, sports arenas suitable for international competitions, academies for sports and arts, concert and entertainment venues, racetracks for motorsport enthusiasts as well as outdoor and adventure activities alongside nature and environment experiences just to mention but a few, began back in April 2018.   Occupying a total of 334 sq. km with a planned build-up area of 223 km2 (the rest of the land is set aside for nature conservation), the Qiddiyah City project has been divided into five development nodes, which are a Resort Core, a City Centre, an Eco Core, a Motion Core, and a Golf and Residential Neighborhood. Phase one of the project which is expected to be completed by 2022, will have six Flags Qiddiya, a family-oriented park filled with rides and attractions distributed throughout six themed lands. Neighboring this pedestrian-oriented district shall be a major outdoor entertainment venue, capable of accommodating events that can host between 5,000 to 40,000 people in a park-like setting, punctuated with active skating and skiing facilities.  According to the developer, upon completion, Qiddiya City will be a disruptive destination recognized on the world stage as the home of the most innovative and immersive experiences. “Our wide range of offerings will be based on five cornerstones: Sports & Wellness; Nature & Environment; Parks & Attractions; Motion & Mobility; and Arts & Culture, making Qiddiya the capital of Entertainment, Sports, and Arts, not just in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, but in the entire world,” explains the developer. The project is being developed by the Qiddiya Investment Company (QIC), which is fully owned by the Public Investment Fund (PIF) of Saudi Arabia. The entertainment city’s design was made by a consortium that includes Bjarke Ingles Group (BIG), a Denmark-based company. Reported earlier Jul 2019 The world’s largest entertainment city which is currently under construction in Al Qidiya, 45 km southwest of Riyadh in Saudi Arabia is set to open to the public in the next 3years. Construction works on this one-of-a-kind structure featuring sports, cultural and recreational facilities began in April 2018. The project has been divided into five development nodes; a Resort Core, a City Centre, an Eco Core, a Motion Core, and a Golf and Residential Neighborhood. The entertainment city’s design, was made by a consortium that includes Bjarke Ingles Group (BIG), a Denmark-based company after extensive consideration of the natural patterns of site. The designers agreed that construction shall only cover 30% of the entire land set aside for the project, which is 334 sq. km, leaving the rest of the land for natural conservation. The project is being developed by the Qiddiya Investment Company (QIC) which is fully owned by the Public Investment Fund (PIF) of Saudi Arabia Phase one of the project which is expected to be complete by 2022, will have six Flags Qiddiya, a family-oriented park filled with rides and attractions distributed throughout six themed lands. Neighboring this pedestrian-oriented district shall be a major outdoor entertainment venue, capable of accommodating events that can host 5,000 to 40,000 heads in a park-like setting, punctuated with active skating and skiing facilities. The entertainment city is expected to make a qualitative leap in the Kingdom and support the country’s vision to achieve more prosperity, progress for society, and raise the status of the capital Riyadh to the best top 100 cities for living in the world. It is also expected to contribute to the diversification of the kingdom’s economy away from oil-based sources of revenue while creating job opportunities for Saudi’s young population. Qiddiyah City Development Project in Saudi Arabia, Middle East  