The Embry, a 15-story condominium complex at 21 North May, Chicago, has commenced construction. The project, which is being planned by Sulo Development, will take up a midblock location between W. Washington Blvd. and W. Madison Street. The 207-foot-tall structure will house 58 for-sale condominiums ranging in size from two to four bedrooms. Within the tower, a limited number of duplexes will be offered. According to a Crain’s report from December 2021, with more than 20% of units already under contract, most remaining condominiums will cost at least $2 million, with three bedrooms beginning at $2.3 million and four bedrooms starting at $2.8 million. At the time, the only sub-$2 million apartment was a $1.27 million two-bedroom unit. Also Read: Fulton Tower, a 305 Residential Units Development in Chicago, Approved The outside of the building, designed by Lamar Johnson Collaborative, appears to go beyond the conventional West Loop aesthetic of brick and gridded windows, drawing on Art Deco to produce a more polished product suggestive of the envisioned next generation of West Loop architecture. The facade is textured utilizing a faceted vertical expression that allows the quality of the façade to alter with the time of day and quality of light, a modern twist on Chicago’s Art Deco legacy. The interior unit layouts were carefully developed to provide the finest possible experience for inhabitants. Condominium interiors designed by Kara Mann Design will include column-free space with spacious private patios, dens, offices, and full-size laundry rooms. On the second level of The Embry in Chicago, facing east, the amenity area will comprise an outdoor deck with a fire pit, an indoor/outdoor fitness center, a yoga studio, putting green, and a resident lounge. A double-height lobby will greet tenants at the entry. With a proper building permit in hand, general contractor McHugh Construction may move on with the project until it is completed. The condominium units are scheduled to be delivered in the spring of 2023.