Decks are great home additions. Not only are they practical, but they essentially pay for themselves. Since the national average for new construction is anywhere between $100 and $200 per square foot, and decking costs around $35 per square foot, you are automatically making a 185% return per square foot of deck. It can be tempting to build a deck with you and your close friends, it’s generally best to hire a professional. They have all the necessary tools, permits, licenses, and knowledge to do the job done without sacrificing safety. Plus, they know all the local regulations and what materials to use. For example, deck builders in Macungie, PA will know what materials hold up to humidity and the cold weather best. If you are thinking about building a deck, consider the following deck design trends to make your outdoor area the best it can be. Outdoor bars are perfect for a casual date night with your significant other or hosting a group of friends for Sunday football. The great thing about outdoor bars is that they can be as simple or complicated as you want them to be. You can create a dry bar with a few liquors and a mini-fridge full of beer and seltzers. Or you can make it your deck focal point and go all out with a wet bar, glass chiller, custom bar seats, and a beautiful cocktail set. According to HGTV, adding a pergola is a great way to maximize your outdoor home value. It is a great way to spend time outside without getting too much sun exposure. Pergolas do take up a lot of space. If you have a small deck, don’t worry. You can build a small corner pergola without taking over the entire area. If you don’t like the plain look, add some mesh or flowing curtains for some additional flair. Whether you choose to go traditional with wooden beams or modern with welded metal, a pergola is a great way to update your outdoor oasis. When it comes to deck design trends, water features have been a staple of backyard landscaping for years. The thing is, they aren’t exclusive to your river rock perimeter. Adding them to your deck can be a great way to add white noise and a zen feel to your outdoor space. If your deck is all straight edges, a rounded fountain or small pond can be a great contrasting piece to add variety to your space. Adding a fire pit is a simple way to bring your family or friends together. Gathering around a fire brings back nostalgic memories of campfire songs and great conversation, so it is the perfect addition. There are a few choices. You can create a built-in fire pit using brick, treated wood, stone, or even cement or you could purchase a gas fire pit. If you are going to burn wood, make sure you have a place mapped out to store your kindling and logs. If you are unsure of which route to go, think about why you want it. Are you using it to cook up s’mores, to keep warm, or just for aesthetic value? Gone are the days of house features that require hours upon hours of maintenance over the years. Low-maintenance features are in. Decks are exposed to the elements, so more and more homeowners are switching from traditional wood to manufactured deck materials like composite, vinyl, pressure-treated wood, cement, or synthetic materials. No more sanding down worn-down wood, sanding, restaining, and sealing every few years. No more paint touch-ups. Warm summer nights under the open sky are the perfect ending to a long day. Adding a little bit of lighting is a deck design trend and can help you unwind. LEDs are the perfect, cost-effective way to add some mood lighting to your deck. Consider adding them along your bar or to the underside of your railing. If you have a pergola, string lights are the way to go. If you have stairs, this can be a great way to deter from tripping while it’s dark out. Most of the time this is a plug-and-play addition you can do on your own. But if you want to wire in some fancy lights, be sure to talk with your electrician to cover all the safety bases. An outdoor kitchen is a great deck addition to consider. Nothing brings family and friends together like food. Similar to building a bar, the sky’s the limit. You could run gas lines to your deck for an outdoor range, build a wood-fire oven, or add a charcoal grill or smoker in the corner. You could add an outdoor sink, bar seating, or butcher-block countertop for prep. Additionally, an outdoor kitchen is a great way to tie multiple additions together like a bar, lighting, or a pergola. The downside to decks is that during the colder months, they will often go unused. What a shame. It doesn’t have to be this way though. Adding some form of temperature control to your deck can help transform it into a multi-seasonal space. This could be something as simple as a fan or outdoor heater, or as complex as wall additions.