Nextdom Property, a Liverpool-based property investor, has submitted plans and applied for permission for the construction of Liverpool Pall Mall twin residential blocks, just north of the city’s business district along Pall Mall. Designed by the Liverpool firm of architects Falconer Chester Hall, the slightly over US$ 112M comprises Block A, which will be eight to seventeen floors tall, with 362 additional homes, and Block B, which will have a curving façade of up to ten floors to the corner of Chadwick Street and Pall Mall and will house 188 new residents. Read also: Plans Underway to Redevelop Glasgow’s St Enoch Shopping Centre In total, the project includes almost 8,000 square feet of ground-floor commercial and retail space, as well as 155 parking spaces. The apartments will be a combination of one, two, and three bedrooms. “The architecture catches up on the old warehouse/dockland nature of the site with the use of brickwork, arches, and vertical elevation focus to create a modern spin on the classic buildings of the area,” says Quentin Keohane of Falconer Chester Hall adding that the concept gives an active business frontage onto Pall Mall and, with careful landscaping, will produce a superb urban environment in what is currently an underutilized region of the city center. According to Nikki Sills of planning consultancy Zerum, which is advising Nextdom, the land, which is currently a combination of surface parking and dilapidated sheds, will help to continue the regeneration of the Pumpfields region. Nikki said that the neighborhood is in transition as the city center develops northwards, adding that the development would provide much-needed housing and commercial space. “Given the site’s proximity to the commercial district, Moorfields underground station, and the local transit network, the 1:1 cycling provision complements what is a very sustainable location. The initiative aims to modify Pall Mall’s streetscape and connect this section of Pumpfields to the larger business district. These lands, according to the developer, are crucial to connecting the Pall Mall/Exchange Station investment region to the larger Ten Streets strategic development zone.” In addition to the construction investment, the Pall Mall Twin Residential Block project is expected to create over US$ 2M in new council tax contributions each year, US$ 73,383 in annual business rates revenue, and approximately 200 full-time construction jobs throughout the building phase.