Below are eight actions that homeowners can use to improve home security and protect their family’s safety. One of the easiest ways of improving home security is locking the doors and windows. Most burglars will gain entry into a home using the front door. Many people make the mistake of leaving their doors and windows unlocked when they are not around. This is one of the easiest targets. Making sure you close your doors and windows before leaving is going to help a lot. It is a good idea to know your neighbors because it is going to help have a safer neighborhood. When neighbors are friendly to each other or friends, they usually look out for each other. The neighbors will be the first ones to let you know if there is something suspicious around your home and can keep an eye on your home when you are not around. They can keep an eye on your home when they are mowing the lawn, shoveling snow, or keeping the plans watered. Your property is not going to look empty. Your neighbors are very important when it comes to the safety of your home. Installing a gate at the end of your driveway with increase the privacy of your property. It will also add an extra level of security. There are many security systems that can be incorporated with a gate giving you peace of mind that your home, belongings and family are safe. Visit Glasgow composite gates to browse the range of gates available. For a family with children, especially when the kids have to come home to an empty house, it is important to have safe resources after moving in. Make sure the kids have access to a phone, emergency phone numbers; family member, a trusted friend, or neighbor, and know what they should do if something happens in the home. You need to establish rules for opening the door, especially for strangers, having friends over, using the alarm system, and locking doors and windows. There also needs to be an emergency exit plan in case of a break-in or fire when the family or child is home. Simple things like the use of curtains or blinds on the windows can help with security by turning burglars off because they can easily see what is inside the house. They usually weigh their options and don’t know whether the break-in and the risks are going to be worth their time. They also don’t know what they are going to find inside the house. When you prevent people from seeing inside, it means they can’t see your valuables or if you’re outside enjoying your garden, sunbathing or enjoying a bbq. It is also hard for them to know if someone is home or not. Most burglars prefer houses that look vacant compared to those that look lived in. Using timers and light is a good idea for home security, especially when you are not home. You can use timers to turn the lights, radio, and TV on and off so that it looks like there is someone home when there isn’t anyone. You should also use exterior lighting in the back and front of your home to get rid of dark areas because burglars can hide there. Motion sensors are also needed because they can prevent lights from being on an entire night and have an element of surprise when someone moves around the property. You need to be very careful when it comes to strangers. It is easy for homeowners to let service people enter their home when they are at work, or leave the contractors to work on the home when they are away, but this is not good. Allow only service providers you have contacted and set an appointment to come to your home. They should just work on the area they need to. Don’t offer a tour because you will show them your home. If you want to move into a new home, consider scheduling all service appointments before moving in so that strangers don’t see your valuables. Consider giving your kids a dog. They are great when it comes to effective burglar deterrence. Most burglars want to get inside and get out without getting any attention. A dog is going to make it hard for them to do this. They will always let you know when something is not right outside or if there is a stranger at the door. Small dogs can also do the job because they are great barkers. While a home security system is not going to do much to prevent a burglar from entering inside your home, the alarm might scare them before they can steal anything. Security systems give homeowners an alert when the home has been breached and can trigger a call to the police, which can help minimize the amount of loss from the incident. There are some systems that will let you know when your kids get home from school or if someone leaves the door unlocked. This gives you the chance of keeping tabs on your family’s safety even when you are not home.