As of 2022, for the last few years we’ve seen the real estate market surge in profits. And though this has largely been blamed on the COVID-19 pandemic and other economic drivers, if you’re selling your home today there are still a few factors that can keep your home on the market while others sell quickly. The fact is, people want to buy a nice home even in a challenging market. And this often relates to how well a home has been maintained. So if you fail to maintain your home, chances are buyers won’t be too eager to sign their name on the dotted line. So what are some of the best ways to keep up with your property to ensure that it will sell when you decide to place it on the market? Believe it or not, a lot of this has to do with the state of your landscaping and the overall curb appeal your home will generate. And here, we’ll explore a few tips on how to get your home ready for sale. As mentioned, one of the key determining factors that will keep your home from selling is the overall state of your property. And if it’s not looking its best, you may have many buyers passing over your home for one just down the street. But with professional lawn care services, you’ll be able to rest assured that your lawn will look its best year round. In fact, most homeowners are unaware, but maintaining a lawn takes a lot more than cutting the grass a couple of times a month. A few essential services that a lawn care company will provide in order to make your lawn look its best are as follows: As you can see, a lot goes into keeping your lawn lush and green. And if you want a prospective buyer to stop and look at your property, having the right lawn care service is essential. Over time, the hardware and appliances in your home will begin to wear. And after a while these will begin to look old and unattractive. But it doesn’t take much time or money to upgrade your hardware. A few areas you’ll want to pay attention to are as follows; If you’ve noticed that you have problems with any of the aforementioned items, you’ll want to fix these problem areas as soon as possible. Because something as seemingly innocent as a broken cabinet handle can actually deter a potential buyer. For example, if a buyer comes to look at your home and the air conditioning doesn’t work, he or she is likely to not spend any more time looking at your home. After all, replacing an air conditioner is a fairly large expense. And this is why it’s essential to upgrade or maintain your hardware and appliances before ever placing your home on the market. Another big part of selling a home is to make it look its best. And if you have faded or chipped paint, or rooms that are half painted, or yellowed from smoke damage, you’ll likely have a difficult time selling your home. Interior painting is fairly easy and inexpensive to do on your own. But be sure to tend to any holes from hanging pictures and to remove any screws or nails before ever placing the first coat of paint. Nails and screws usually need to be patched. And after you’ve done this, it’s time to freshen up your home with a nice coat of new paint. When it comes to exterior paint, this is a task that you might want to leave to the professionals if you have extensive damage to your walls. This is because exterior painting can be quite a tiresome job and it requires tools such as large ladders and spray guns that you might not have access to. Remember, buyers are attracted to a home that looks brand new, so anything you can do to achieve this look is going to be to your benefit when it comes time to sell your home on the market. And when you take the time to make the exterior of the home look inviting, you’re likely to land a sale much faster than you think.