Plans are underway for the development of a $25 Million Baltimore Community Solar project, which will serve as a power source for both the University of Maryland Medical System(UMMS) and the local residents. The solar project is being built through a partnership between UMMS and WeSolar, a local solar power company, owned by Kristal Hansley. The partner companies recently announced their collaboration on the Baltimore Community Solar project, which is aimed at building several solar farms across Baltimore City and expected to become operational within two years. Through this project, more than a 100 virtual jobs will be created in Baltimore over the next three years. In addition, Health system employees of UMMS earning less than $67,000 per annum will be eligible for a discount on solar energy. Also Read Aktina Solar Project, the Largest Solar Power Project in Texas, USA UMMS expressed its commitment to purchase about half of the electricity to be generated from the projected 8-MW Baltimore Community Solar project and will pay a pre-development fee of about $180,000. This fee will be paid in monthly instalments of $10,000, over a period of 18 months, and it will be used to fund the construction and delivery of several solar farms, at locations within the Baltimore Gas & Electric utility grid. Kristal Hansley, the CEO of WeSolar said the company was excited about the new doors that will be opened as a result of the new initiative for the Baltimore Community Solar project. She said the solar project would target customers who desire renewable energy, but face accessibility issues, particularly those who rent or live in homes that do not support the technology. Hansley also mentioned that the Baltimore Community Solar project would focus on reducing social barriers, building community connections, and educating residents about solar advantages, with the company’s main goal being the reduction of bills for low-to-moderate-income customers by at least 35%. The President and CEO of UMMS, Dr Mohan Suntan, pointed out that this unique partnership with WeSolar was an incredible opportunity for UMMS to engage with a locally-owned Minority Women’s Business that shares similar goals of improving the living conditions and the environment in Baltimore.