Miami Worldcenter recently announced the completion of Block H, which adds retail and parking components to the 27-acre project as an active vertical building on the US$ 4bn mixed-use complex in the heart of Downtown Miami continues. Block H has 50,000 square feet of premium street-level and rooftop retail space, as well as a 922-space public parking garage fronting NE Seventh Street between NE First and Second avenues. A resort-style amenities deck serves Bezel Miami, a freshly constructed 43-story luxury rental tower erected next door by ZOM Living, on a piece of the structure’s rooftop. Also Read: St Regis Residences to replace senior housing complex in Miami Miami Worldcenter, Florida’s largest private urban development, will have a diversified mix of residential, business, and hospitality uses, as well as 300,000 square feet of retail, restaurant, and entertainment space. Miami Worldcenter Associates, directed by principal Art Falcone and managing partner Nitin Motwani, is developing the project in collaboration with CIM Group. At Miami Worldcenter, about 176,000 square feet of retail space has already been built, with another 124,000 square feet still under construction and scheduled to be delivered by the end of the year. Chicago’s Maple & Ash and Etta restaurants, Miami chef Michael Beltran’s Brasserie Laurel and El Vecino, Bowlero, Sephora, and Lucid Motors are among the development’s newly announced tenants. “Each development milestone is a significant accomplishment for Miami Worldcenter and our development team.” “This is a dynamic, diverse project that benefits aesthetically from a diversity of architectural forms, interlaced streets, plazas, and meeting places; it provides a linked community and an engaging experience for everybody,” stated Shaul Kuba, co-founder and principal of CIM Group. “When we envisioned Miami Worldcenter more than a decade ago, we envisioned a Downtown Miami where people could walk, ride a bike, push a stroller, take public transportation, or drive a vehicle, and we’re seeing that vision come to life as more of our developments continue to deliver,” Motwani said.