Mr. Guo Zitong, Chinese Communication Construction Company (CCCC) site engineer, stated during a recent site inspection of the 22-kilometer Entebbe-Kibuye Road project that construction, which began in August last year, is scheduled to be finished in roughly five months. He explained that the project, which includes, among other things restoring existing sidewalks, building drainage channels to avoid floods, particularly around the Kajjansi region, and installing street lights, is approximately 50% complete. The UNRA media relations manager, Mr. Allan Ssempebwa, on the other hand, said that activities between Mpala and Kisubi included stone pitching of side drains to aid adequate flow of stormwater, shoulder repair, major full road width repairs, installation of access culverts, and construction of access roads to reduce silt damage on main pavements, among other things. The US$ 12M Entebbe-Kibuye Road project is led by Uganda National Roads Authority (UNRA), a government agency mandated to develop and maintain the national roads network, advise the government on general roads policy, contribute to the addressing of national transport concerns, and perform certain other functions. Entebbe Road is one of Uganda’s busiest. It’s a flight to Uganda’s lone international airport. Traffic on the route had significantly decreased but has subsequently increased as the government implemented a payment system for cars using the Entebbe–Express Highway. Since the route’s completion in 2019, many cars have utilized it to bypass traffic on the Kampala-Entebbe road. Also Read: Kapchorwa-Suam Road Tarmacking Project in Uganda to Be Completed Early 2022 Mr. Francis Ojok, who represented the officer in charge of traffic in the Kajjansi region, stated that the renovations will go a great way toward freeing up traffic and creating pedestrian paths that will significantly reduce accidents. However, he observed that managing traffic flow has been difficult due to the need to close a portion of the route. The Kajjansa neighborhood has been experiencing floods, according to Assistant Superintendent of Police Luke Nuwataho, which is likely to be remedied by the present efforts.