Construction on Main Street’s above-ground KC Streetcar extension project broke ground recently at Pershing Road, in Kansas City, Missouri. The KC Streetcar workers are now set to commence this phase of the development, with the underground utility work on Main street nearing completion. This project will create a new rail route from the Union Station to the (University of Missouri Kansas City) UMKC. The KC Streetcar extension project is being developed through a partnership between the Kansas City Area Transportation Authority and the Kansas City Streetcar Authority (KCSA), a non-profit organization founded for the purpose of operating, managing, and maintaining the streetcar operations in the city. The construction team working on this project is a joint venture between Herzog Contracting Corp. and Stacy and Witbeck. The team is also supported by Burns & McDonnell and JE Dunn Construction. City officials had already concluded the planning and design phase of the Streetcar extension project in 2017 and the results revealed that over 30 City blocks would be covered while extending the existing 2.2-mile ‘Starter Line’ to the  UMKC Volcker campus and spanning up to 3.5 miles southbound. Also Read San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District (BART) Extension Project Updates The UMKC streetcar stop, located at 51st Street was unveiled at the groundbreaking event and it is expected to feature a large overhang with benches, a map of the streetcars route, and ample standing space. According to the Kansas City leaders, it would take more than two years to complete the installation of the 3.5 miles of rail and other infrastructure needed for the KC Streetcar extension project. The KC Streetcar extension project is estimated at $351 million, with about $174 million coming from a grant awarded by the US Department of Transportation Federal Transit Administration. The rest of the project’s total cost will be financed through special property assessment and sales tax. Future maintenance and operation costs associated with the streetcar project will also be funded by tax. The capital raised for the KC Streetcar extension project will also enable KCSA to acquire eight new streetcars to run on the new line. The streetcar extension, on completion, will offer a fare-free transport system, as the people boarding the vehicles will not be charged. In addition, total daily ridership is expected to rise to 12,000 on 14 streetcars, with passengers ready to ride in 2025.