Sterling Bay and Harrison Street recently celebrated the structural construction completion of ALLY at 1229 W Concord Pl, a new life sciences complex that will provide much-needed lab space along the North Branch of the Chicago River to the city’s fast increasing biotech community. The topping out event was attended by the project leadership teams from Sterling Bay and Harrison Street, as well as partners from Power Construction and Gensler, who honoured the occasion with a traditional beam-signing ceremony. 1229 W. Concord Pl. is a 320,000-square-foot Class A construction that will accommodate industry leaders looking to perform ground-breaking life sciences research in Chicago. The skyscraper, designed by Gensler, has ultramodern facilities and huge outdoor gathering areas. Tenants of 1229 W. Concord Pl will have unparalleled access to The Steelyard’s dynamic restaurants, experiential retail, and over 6.5 acres of sprawling park space for sports, fitness, and riverfront recreation, as it is conveniently located within walking distance of The Steelyard, Lincoln Yards’ future lifestyle district. 1229 W. Concord is a light, bright, and wellness-focused building inspired by the dynamism of the life sciences sector. The project brings in the best of the outdoors and prioritizes tenant health through its pursuit of LEED Silver Certification, WELL Health-Safety Certification, and RESET Air Standard, with balconies on every floor, natural materials incorporated throughout, and seamless integration with the Chicago River. Also Read: Fulton Tower, a 305 Residential Units Development in Chicago, Approved “Watching 1229 W Concord Place grow along the Chicago River at Lincoln Yards has been extremely fulfilling after years of intensive preparation. Once completed, this cutting-edge facility will provide tenants at the cutting-edge of life sciences innovation with not only the most advanced technological infrastructure but also inspiring views of Chicago’s skyline and incredible amenities that foster a healthy, collaborative workplace environment,” said Sterling Bay CEO Andy Gloor.