Key contracts worth over £1.5 billion ($1.95 billion) have been awarded for the NeuConnect project, a major interconnector centered on 725 kilometers long subsea cables that will allow 1.4 gigawatts of power to flow in both directions between the United Kingdom and Germany, Europe’s two major economies. Contracts for the project, which is referred to as the “invisible energy highway” and “the first direct link between the UK and German energy markets” have been awarded for cabling work and converter stations. Siemens Energy was given the contract for the latter, which would include the design and building of locations in Germany and the United Kingdom, according to NeuConnect. The interconnector will allow Britain to “plug into Germany’s extensive energy infrastructure, particularly its major renewable energy sources.” According to the German government, “the new link with Britain will assist reduce current bottlenecks where wind turbines are regularly turned down due to an excess of renewable energy being generated.” According to announcements, the financial close on NeuConnect is scheduled for the “coming weeks,” allowing construction to begin in 2022. NeuConnect is part of a planned and undergoing project whose main is to help connect the United Kingdom to the rest of Europe. These projects include a 450-mile underwater cable connecting the United Kingdom and Norway, allowing them to share renewable energy, which commenced commercial operations last year. The North Sea Link, as it is known, is intended to utilize Norway’s hydropower and the United Kingdom’s wind energy resources. Also Read: Xlinks Solar & Wind Power Project Updates, Morocco Back in the United Kingdom, proposals for a multibillion-pound “underwater energy superhighway” that would allow electricity generated in Scotland to be delivered to the northeast of England were unveiled in 2020. The Eastern Link project, which is still in its early phases, will focus on the development of a pair of high-voltage direct-current cables with a total capacity of 4 GW.