Sapphire Bay Resort, a new destination hotel, was announced earlier this month as the most recent addition to the US$ 1bn mixed-use Sapphire Bay development project, located at the shore of Lake Ray Hubbard in Rowlett. The announcement also revealed Hyatt, as the operator of this new resort and conference center, which is expected to open by fall 2023. The first phase of the Sapphire Bay Development was a 117-acre, lagoon-anchored development, which broke ground in 2019; since then several other developments have also been announced for the Sapphire Bay project, including a marina district project featuring a restaurant complex, 10 new dock houses, plus 7 remodeled or refurbished dock houses, and on-the-water boat rental and brokerage centers. Also read: Renovations to resume on The Otis Hotel San Antonio Sapphire Bay Resort will be the newest addition located at Sapphire Bay Peninsula and this part of the mixed-use project, is being built as a public-private partnership with the city of Rowlett. The Sapphire Bay Resort will be included in Hyatt’s Destination Hotels brand and it will feature over 500 guestrooms, suites, and villas, with each of these units having stunning waterfront views, overlooking Lake Ray Hubbard and the man-made Sapphire Bay Lagoon, which spans 7 acres. Several luxury amenities, including a state-of-the-art fitness center, full-service spa, six pools, and tropical gardens, will also be provided. In addition, the resort also offers an indoor and outdoor event space of about 100,000 square feet, that features two grand ballrooms, pre-function areas, multiple-sized breakout boardrooms, event lawns, and a special event island snuggled along the eastern shore of the Sapphire Bay Lagoon. The development team working on the Sapphire Bay Resort consists of 5G Studio Collaborative, serving as the lead architect for the Sapphire Bay Resort; Brain Bridgewater & P.E. along with Manhard Consulting, for the civil engineering; Lifescapes International, as the designer for the landscaping and tropical garden environments; Cleartide Management Group, serving as a consultant for the operational design & programming;  and DuWest Realty for handling the leasing arrangements. The US$ 1bn Sapphire Bay development will feature many more projects which include 875,000 square feet of commercial office space; 250,000 square feet of retail; 750 full-service hotel rooms; 350 limited-service hotel rooms; a 77,000 square-foot conference center; 140 townhomes; 1,200 multi-family residences; and over 300 condominiums. In addition, this project will also feature a surf village and water park; a 1,000-slip marina; and The Fountains at Sapphire Bay, an attraction intended to become one of the most iconic pieces of public art in the United States. Some of the initial components of Sapphire Bay are expected to open this year, while the remaining components are scheduled for the summer of 2024.