Central Station, a 1 million-square-foot mixed-use complex in downtown Phoenix, has been broken ground by a joint venture of Medistar Corp., GMH Communities, and CBRE Investment Management. Central Station, which will be located next to Civic Space Park and Arizona State University’s Downtown Phoenix Campus, will have two residential buildings, 30,000 square feet of retail space, 70,000 square feet of creative office space, and two levels of underground parking with 430 spots. Also Read: Renovations on the Sheraton Hotel in downtown Phoenix completed One tower, a 22-story student housing structure, will be completely furnished and will have 655 beds ranging from micro studios to four-bedroom flats for undergraduate and graduate students as well as young professionals. The apartments will have smart technology, facilities, and services tailored to the demands of city dwellers. A second structure, a 33-story residential tower with smart-tech facilities, will house 362 units. Residents would all have access to an outdoor amenity deck with BBQ grills, fire pits, and a resort-style pool. Central Station will open in late 2024. The project is a public-private collaboration, with the City of Phoenix owning the site and the development partners signing a long-term lease for the project. The project was designed by Gould Evans, and the general contractor will be Layton Construction. “At GMH, we are aggressively looking for opportunities to extend our presence and construct Class-A, smart-tech apartment complexes around the country. Our aim with Central Station is to revitalize Downtown Phoenix, giving students and the local workforce the living accommodations needed to support their unique live-work-play-learn-thrive lives,” stated Steve Behrle, GMH’s Chief Development Officer. “New eateries open every week. New renters are moving into downtown residences four times quicker than everywhere else in the Valley. Central Station is a neighborhood that adds life to downtown Phoenix by providing varied housing options and a range of functions to fulfill the requirements of individuals who live and work in Downtown Phoenix,” added Phoenix Vice Mayor Pastor.