Kier has been granted a £460 million contract by National Highways to design and implement an improvement to the A417 between Gloucester and Swindon. The project will double the single-lane roadway on the A417 in Gloucestershire between the Brockworth bypass and the Cowley roundabout. A new intersection at Shab Hill will connect the A417 to the A436 towards Oxford and Birdlip. Another new junction will be set up near Cowley to replace the current Cowley roundabout. Volker, Arup, Tony Gee, and RPS will be part of Kier’s team that will plan and build the 3.4-mile road. Kier was awarded the contract after a competitive bidding process through National Highways’ regional delivery partnership system. Earlier this year, it concluded a budget-setting procedure with National Highways. The project still requires development consent, which is being reviewed by the Planning Inspectorate. Following the completion of the examination in May, the Planning Inspectorate will make a recommendation to the Secretary of State for Transport, who will make a final decision in the autumn. “Kier has a long track experience working with National Highways and executing big scale infrastructure projects, so we are confident they will deliver a scheme that fulfills our landscape-led vision,” said National Highways project director Michael Goddard. We will collaborate to achieve a project that is sympathetic to the unique character of the Cotswolds area of outstanding natural beauty, while also supporting economic growth, improving traffic flows during peak times, and making the route safer.” Read also: Development Partner Being Pursued for York Central Project in England Gloucestershire County Council Leader Councilor Mark Hawthorne added, “I’m incredibly glad we’ve achieved this critical stage of this crucial project.” After such a long wait, it finally feels like the ‘missing link’ solution is on its way to becoming a reality. “Completion will result in enhanced safety and air quality, as well as more reliable journey times, resulting in enormous advantages for our county’s economy and the creation of new habitats and habitat connections for local wildlife.”