In collaboration with the Council of Governors (CoG) and the Busia County Government, the National Government of Kenya has launched an initiative to relieve overcrowding at the Busia County Referral Hospital by increasing bed capacity (BCRH). The Sh100 million Medical Male Surgical Ward at the county hospital will improve the provision of excellent health services to the area’s citizens. Jonathan Ino, the County Chief Officer for Health and Sanitation, recognized a severe lack of beds at the county’s public hospitals. For example, BCRH initially had just 60 beds in the male surgical ward, so the anticipated extra 48 beds will significantly boost the county health sector. There will be ample room for individuals who require surgery. Once the new building is completed, the present area used for the same purpose will be utilized for other services that will benefit the people. Also Read: Olkaria I Geothermal Power Plant Unit 6 Construction in Kenya Complete The majority of the male patients in the unit have fractures and other injuries due to motorbike accidents and fights. The Intensive Care Unit is the only area where patients are not forced to share a bed since each patient is on life-support machines that cannot be shared. There are occasions when up to two individuals share a bed in the male surgical ward while others sleep on the floor, yet patients cannot be turned away since it is a referral hospital. The county has been working to improve level 4 medical facilities in sub-county hospitals, among other things, in order to decrease congestion at the BCRH. The Chief Officer of Health was speaking during a site inspection of the project at the BCRH, accompanied by the Directors Dr. Janerose Ambuchi (Medical Services) and Dr. Melsah Lutomia (Preventive and Promotive Services), County Health Administrative Officer Ali Atemba, and Acting Medical Superintendent Dr. Emma Namulala, among others. According to Ino, the current asbestos on the roofs of the BCRH will be removed to install the pre-painted steel sheet. The contractor, Peter Mugoya, operating as Petmart Services Limited, stated that based on the current agreement, he will guarantee that the Busia County Referral Hospital project is completed by June 30th this year, paving the path for the formal commissioning.