The Bruce Highway Upgrade Program is Queensland’s greatest road infrastructure project to date. CIMIC Group company CPB Contractors was selected by the Queensland Government to deliver the Bruce Highway Upgrade. The project aims to improve safety, flood resilience, and capacity along the whole length of the roadway connecting Brisbane and Cairns. The initiative, which began on July 1, 2013, was initially envisioned as an $8.5 billion 10-year commitment jointly supported by the Australian and Queensland governments. The Australian Government added $3.3 billion (based on 80:20 funding arrangements) to its current $6.7 billion pledge in May 2018. In addition to the $1.8 billion previously allocated, the Queensland Government has committed to providing an extra $200 million each year (based on 80:20 funding agreements) for Bruce Highway enhancements. Over a 15-year period (2013–14 to 2027–28), the program will produce $13 billion in work. The increased financing included specific pledges for the Bruce Highway Cooroy to Curra—(Section D: Woondum to Curra) and the Townsville Ring Road project (Stage 5), as well as: By December 2020, the program has completed 23 key projects, including the delivery of: Also Read: The Nowra Bridge Project in New South Wales, Australia. The initiative also promotes regional economic growth and job creation in Queensland. The Bruce Highway is an important north-south freight and commuter route in Queensland, linking coastal population centers from Brisbane to Cairns along a 1,677km stretch. It is also an important section of the National Land Transport Network, linking a considerable resource industry and interior agriculture producing areas to 11 coastal ports, as well as a key tourism route. The work began on July 1, 2013, with a rolling program of upgrading projects up and down the highway, with a completion date of June 20, 2028. The 15-year program prioritizes the following three areas of delivery: Safety enhancements to increase highway safety by providing broad center line treatments, intersection upgrades, and safety barriers to lower the likelihood of fatal and severe injury collisions, making it safe for all road users. Flood enhancements to increase highway efficiency by elevating bridges and approaches and strengthening flood immunity on portions of routes prone to flooding. While it may not be possible to provide a totally flood-free route at this time, roads are evaluated to guarantee a consistent standard is supplied for that specific network connection. Capacity enhancements to increase economic potential through enhanced highway service levels. This will be accomplished by the implementation of capacity-improvement projects such as extra lanes, controlled highways, grade separation (the physical separation of separate traffic flows), and junction modifications.