Developed by (the Tennessee Department of Transportation) TDOT the Spring Hill I-65 project implementation at exit 56 of Buckner Road in the city of Spring Hill, Tennessee, has begun. The The TDOT, which developed the project with the aim of assuaging the traffic congestion along the major North-South corridors throughout the region by providing a direct interstate exit from I-65 to Spring Hill, has tapped BELL & Associates Construction to serve as the general contractor and awarded the contract to them for $54.3 million. BELL & Associates partnered with the Neel-Schaffer engineering firm on the interchange 65 project which also covers the widening and extension of the Buckner Road over an additional 2.25 miles between Buckner Lane and Lewisburg Pike in Williamson County. Once completed, this road will be renamed June Lake Boulevard. Funded by the City of Spring Hill with a US$ 25M support from the federal BUILD grant the Spring Hill I-65 Project is expected to be delivered in May 2023. Southeast Venture, a Nashville-based developer, who is currently building a 775-acre mixed-use development called June Lake along the west side of the I-65, has been working in tandem with the city on the Spring Hill I-65 project and the development plans for the new interchange were adjusted by the TDOT to accommodate the June Lake development. Southeast Venture also commissioned a study on the new interchange, which was conducted by KCI Technologies. The study revealed that the Spring Hill I-65 project could result in an estimated 17,000 daily trips in the first year of using interchange-65, due to pent-up demand and this value is expected to rise to about 44,000 over the next 20 years. According to Southeast Venture’s project manager Don Alexander, the Spring Hill I-65 project will not only provide much-needed traffic congestion relief, but it will also serve in paving the way for greater economic development in Spring Hill, southern Williamson County, and northern Maury County as well. Also Read ICC approves US$18m for major road construction projects in Illinois Alexander also said he was looking forward to seeing the June Lake development unfold and take shape as a thriving residential and commercial district, which over the next two decades will feature 2,900 residential units, 3.9 million sq. ft. of class-A office space, 400 hotel rooms, and nearly 1.3 million sq. ft. of retail and restaurant spaces.