Regensburg Quarter, a new residential development in Nuremberg’s south-east, is being planned by the state-owned housing company SW Nürnberg. The municipal council of Nuremberg accepted the urban development contract with the settlement work Nuremberg GmbH. The approval was a crucial step in the development of the Regensburger Strasse neighborhood. 381 stylish and inexpensive apartments will be built in the new ‘Regensburg quarter.’ The first phases are scheduled to be completed in 2024. In 2016, the public was shown the winning design of the urban planning competition. The urban development contract now governs the allocation of expenses for necessary social and transportation infrastructure measures between the municipality and the customer. The state-owned housing association iedlungswerk Nürnberg is constructing the Regensburg Quarter. “With the housing estate, we are developing inexpensive and appealing housing for the residents of Nuremberg,” said Building Minister Schreyer. The new quarter on Regensburger Strasse is one of the most expensive projects in the company’s more than 100-year history, costing over 150 million euros. The 381 planned units will make a significant contribution to alleviating the rental market’s load.” Read also: Intel to Construct US$ 19bn Chip Manufacturing Unit in Germany  The colony offers a diverse range of apartment sizes, from modest single apartments to huge 5-room flats for families with children. A day-care center and a family center, as well as multiple playgrounds for children and 10 smaller commercial units, are also planned. Particular attention was made to the old trees that deserve to be protected in the necessary traffic infrastructure improvements. The required parking spots are concentrated in a multi-story parking garage. This results in an ecologically appealing residential neighborhood, which, for example, does justice to the environment and species conservation by establishing a lizard biotope. The high-quality outdoor facilities also provide a high standard of living for residents and neighbors, promoting social interaction. The building’s construction to an energy-saving level as a KfW efficiency house 55 is just as important as the use of sustainable building materials and the optimization of building maintenance. In 1919, the state-owned housing company SW Nürnberg was established. It is responsible for constructing, managing, and maintaining housing for large segments of the population in economically viable circumstances in the Nuremberg area and surrounding area. The company’s portfolio today includes over 8,000 flats. Around 1,000 new residential units are planned as part of an ambitious new development program. Client: SW Nürnberg GmbH Project manager: GCA Nuremberg Landscape architects: Topos, Berlin Tenders and site supervision: gapp, Munich Structural engineer: Peters Schüßler Sperr, Nuremberg HVAC: Ingenieurbüro Koppe, Nuremberg Fire Consultant: Teuke Ingenieurbüro, Nuremberg Building Physics: Basic, Gundelsheim Infrastructure: Gauff Engineering, Nuremberg Visualization: Georg Hana, Berlin 