Sonnenblick-Eichner Company has announced a US$276-million construction and permanent loan for the Los Angeles (LA) Chargers’ new training facility and office complex, which will be located on a 14-acre site near the intersection of El Segundo Boulevard and Pacific Coast Highway and was previously part of Raytheon’s El Segundo campus. The land is located around seven miles west of SoFi Stadium, where the Chargers play their home games, and seven miles south of Los Angeles International Airport. The project was developed by Continental Development Corporation and Mar Ventures, Inc., and the loan was funded by CLT Capital, LLC of New York. Also Read: Construction of Angels Landing to Begin Soon, Los Angeles The campus is being designed by Gensler Sports and will include a 145,000-square-foot main structure with conference rooms, offices, a hospitality club, eSports gaming and production studios, and a 3,100-square-foot media centre. Three natural grass fields are also planned, as well as 7,600 square feet of elevated terraces and bleacher seating for over 5,000 spectators, a 3,400-square-foot elevated outdoor turf area, and parking for 348 automobiles. The project is anticipated to be completed in the spring of 2024. Continental Complex and Mar Ventures, long-time partners on South Bay business campuses, are also behind proposals for a mixed-use housing development on Pacific Coast Highway, as well as a projected 300,000-square-foot office site on Rosecrans Avenue. “Continental Development Corporation, one of California’s leading development businesses, is a long-standing customer of our firm.” It is a joy to work with such a high-quality organization, whose dedication to excellence is evident in all of their projects,” stated David Sonnenblick, a principal of Sonnenblick-Eichner Company, in a news release. The new Chargers stadium is adjacent to Nash Street Exchange, a medical, retail, and restaurant area being built by the same developers. The two companies also collaborated on the development of the Beach Cities Media Campus in El Segundo, as well as the completion of the 58,034-square-foot facility in Del Rey that houses video game business Electronic Arts.