Construction of the Corazón del Valle, a new affordable and permanent supportive housing complex located just west of Van Nuys Boulevard in Panorama City has begun. The project will be built on a County-owned land at 14545 Lanark Street, immediately south of the Panorama Mall. Designed and represented in drawings by Perkins&Will as a trio of amorphous five-story towers divided by courtyards and breezeway, the Corazón del Valle will consist of twin buildings with 180 studios, one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartments. According to a Clifford Beers Housing press release, the Corazón del Valle in Panorama City will incorporate a greywater system that would save more than 70,000 gallons of potable water per year, as well as solar panels that will generate 22% of the property’s power.  In addition to housing, the project will offer case management services supplied by the San Fernando Valley Community Mental Health Center, which will also run a community clinic in the property’s commercial space on the ground level. Also Read: Construction of Wellness Center Campus in California Begins The units at the Corazón del Valle will reportedly be allocated for previously unhoused people and low-income households. The flats will be suitable for single persons earning up to $12,400 per year or families earning up to $70,000 per year. “Every unit at Corazón del Valle is a friendly environment for a Los Angeles citizen who will soon have a safe and nice place to live. I look forward to our opening day when over 200 folks will be able to breathe a huge sigh of relief knowing they no longer have to confront the specter of homelessness,” said LA County Supervisor Sheila Kuehl in comments. More than $100 million in public monies granted by the City and County of Los Angeles, as well as more than $45 million in money allocated by Enterprise Community Partners, will be used to build Corazón del Valle, which is set to open in stages between 2023 and 2024. Genesis LA, the Corporation for Supportive Housing, and general contractor Alpha Construction are all involved in the project.