Center City Crossing, a $25 million 90-unit luxury apartment complex project, which has been in the works for about three years finally broke ground recently in Gastonia, North Carolina. The project initially commenced in 2019 but experienced some delays due to the COVID 19 pandemic and other associated supply chain and material issues. The developers of Center City Crossing, Kuester Cos., are now back on track and ready to continue working on this six-story apartment building, which will include a blend of one- to three-bedroom studio apartments. All units will be furnished with granite countertops, luxury vinyl tile wood flooring, private balconies, and solid wood cabinets. Also Read Hanover Hollywood, a New Mixed-Use Complex Unveiled in California Center City Crossing will also feature several shared amenities for the residents which include a courtyard sitting area, fitness center, grill space, a rooftop area with lounge spots, and a parking deck with about 135 parking spots, annexed to the building. Current work on the site located at 147 W. Main Ave, shows a fence around the development, truncating access to a small city park where the apartments would be built. The removal of park benches and landscaping along with asphalt and concrete is also ongoing. Center City Crossings is expected to take about 18 months to reach completion, with the price ranging between $1, 000 for the studio units and up to $1950 for the three-bedroom units at this luxury apartment building. The general contractor tapped for the project is EMJ Construction, while the architect in charge of the design is Cline Design. The Mayor of Gastonia, Walker Reid III,  who was in attendance at the groundbreaking ceremony for Center City Crossings, mentioned that this project was the missing link to attract more people to live downtown and he commended Kuester for their investment in Gastonia, which would help create more housing options in the city. Other city leaders also consider this new apartment complex project a game-changer for the downtown area, which will bring in permanent residents and new developments as well.