Sudberry Properties has completed The Hub at Scripps Ranch, a mixed-use redevelopment project at 9840 Carroll Canyon Road in San Diego’s Scripps Ranch neighborhood. Apartment occupants are beginning to move in as construction nears completion. The Hub at Scripps Ranch is a 9.5-acre development with 260 apartments and 10,700 square feet of retail and restaurant space. The property has one-, two-, and three-bedroom layouts ranging in size from 614 to 1,391 square feet, with monthly rates starting at $2,600. Also Read: Denver International Airports Great Hall Project Updates, California Private patios or balconies, nine-foot ceilings, hardwood-style flooring in public areas, carpeting in bedrooms, fully equipped kitchens with GE Energy Star stainless steel appliances, quartz countertops, and full-size washers/dryers are among the interior amenities. Starbucks Coffee, Pacific Dental Services, and Big Cheech’s Chicken N’ Waffles and Sliders are among the retail and restaurant tenants. MVE Architecture, Reylenn Construction Co., Pasco Laret Suiter & Associates, GroundLevel Landscape Architecture, and Design Tec are among the development team members. Retail leasing will be handled by Matt Mosser of Retail Insite, while The Hub will be managed by Sudberry Properties. The smoke-free apartment community is pet-friendly, with facilities such as a manicured pool and outdoor patio area, a fitness center, and a media screening room. Prior to its takeover by USAir in 1988, the property was home to Pacific Southwest Airlines’ reservations and pilot training centers. “The Hub at Scripps Ranch provides modern, resort living with unique Scripps Ranch urban-style design,” said Colton Sudberry, president of the business that is also constructing Civita in Mission Valley. Sudberry Assets specializes in retail town centers, mixed-use developments, master-planned communities, residences, hotels, and office/industrial properties. Since its foundation in 1979, the firm has produced about 12.6 million square feet of commercial and residential property valued at more than $2.5 billion.