A development partner is being pursued the York Central project; the £700m vast redevelopment scheme planned near York Railway Station. Homes England and Network Rail have given JLL the task of finding a strategic development partner for the York Central project, which is one of the UK’s largest brownfield regeneration schemes. The 45-hectare site is one of the country’s largest city-center brownfield sites, and it will be converted as part of plans to develop 2,500 new units in the city. Plans include the building of 2,500 additional homes and over 800,000 square feet of commercial space near the York railway station. The project is estimated to boost the city’s GDP by 20%. The project’s first phase is planned to produce up to 650,000 square feet of commercial space and 700 residential apartments. Arup and Allies & Morrison‘s concept includes a new access road into the city, modifications to pedestrian and cycle paths, and a new entrance to York Railway Station, in addition to proposals for additional affordable houses and business premises. Read also: Plans Approved for “The Forum” a Residential-Led Development in Stevenage An Outline Application for the mixed-use development was accepted in 2019, followed by a Reserved Matters Application in 2020 for a large first phase of infrastructure delivered by the Landowners. “Urban redevelopment plans like York Central have a big role to play in implementing the government’s Levelling Up goal by replacing underutilized brownfield areas with an enticing choice of mixed-use buildings and well-landscaped public open space,” said Peter Freeman of Homes England. Collaborations between the public and commercial sectors will be essential for success. “We want to hear from developers that share our vision for vibrant new neighborhoods and are interested in playing a significant role in the implementation of York Central.” York Central is well on its way, with planning and land assembly in place, as well as a major infrastructure contract in place. It is a fantastic opportunity to bring a long-awaited initiative to the benefit of the York community.” The site is surrounded by railway lines, with the station at the end of the teardrop-shaped patch of land, with the East Coast Main Line forming a barrier to the north and east, and the Freight Avoiding Lines forming a barrier to the south and west. According to a 2017 assessment, the current access routes to the site are inappropriate. The council then agreed to hire a construction company to develop the core £50 million roadway infrastructure required to improve site access. The work to unlock the site is expected to cost £155 million.