Metropica is a four-million-square-foot, transit-oriented development that is coming up 1800NW 136th Avenue in Sunrise, Florida. US. K Group Holdings and Trillist Companies are developing the project, which is set to be South Florida’s largest new mixed-use development comprising eight towers, including 2,250 residential units, 485,000ft² of retail space, 650,000ft² of Class-A office space, two hotels with 260 rooms and a 2.5-acre public park. The ground-breaking ceremony for the first tower of the mixed-use development dubbed “ONE Metropica” was conducted in October 2015 and the building was topped off in March 2018. In mid-2020 the 28-story building with a total of 263 residences was commissioned. The City of Sunrise then awarded a temporary certificate of occupancy (TCO) to Metropica Development LLC, allowing move-ins to commence. ONE  Metropica is located near Simon’s Sawgrass Mills Mall and close to Interstates 75, 95, and 595, as well as the Florida Turnpike. The condominiums, designed by architectural companies Oppenheim Architecture + Design and YOO Design Group, range in size from 961 to 2,022 square feet. They include floor-to-ceiling glass windows, porcelain tiling, smart home technology, and designer plumbing fixtures by Hansgrohe. A landscaped patio and pool; a clubroom with a bar, lounge, and screening room; a children’s playground; an upmarket fitness center with locker rooms and showers; and 24-hour concierge services are among the community features. A public art project by artist Stefan Szczesny is also located within the property. Also Read: Affordable housing project launched in Gainesville, Florida Bernard Werner, president of Metropica Development LLC, states, “We are tremendously happy to be presenting our first residential building to the market.” “Our projected retail tenants are adjusting to the new post-pandemic reality, and Metropica intends to modify its retail development plans appropriately.” “We will make our updated ideas for the development of the mixed-use property available as soon as they are ready,” says Sandie Witmer, Metropica’s head of retail leasing.