Dublin Airport Authority (DAA) has engaged Atkins, a part of the SNC-Lavalin Group, as the multi-disciplinary consultant for the delivery of a services framework for its buildings at Dublin and Cork airports. Atkins will collaborate with DAA’s in-house design team on a large program of work over the next five years. “The coming years will see DAA invest considerably in our piers and terminals at both Dublin and Cork airports to create a more seamless trip for passengers, better security, and permit capacity development,” said Ultan McCloskey, Director of Infrastructure at DAA. “Atkins’ extensive global aviation expertise implementing innovative technological solutions at airports throughout the world will complement DAA’s in-house technical capacity, allowing us to handle the infrastructural challenges that lie ahead.” As part of the proposal to modernize terminals and related structures at both Dublin and Cork airports, Atkins will provide a variety of services. This will include improvements to retail spaces, airline lounges, and check-in zones, as well as cargo facilities throughout the Dublin Airport property, both landside and airside. Atkins offers the following services: Strategic Infrastructure Planning; Airport Planning and Capacity Modelling; Multi-Discipline Design; Technology / ICT / Aviation Security; and Information Management. Atkins’ appointment to the five-year framework (extendable by four years) builds on a 15-year engagement with DAA, during which it has effectively developed projects at both airport campuses. Also Read: Ballymore to develop UNEX-Thames Road Industrial Estate in London. “This is a really important appointment for Atkins, and we very much expect to establish a truly collaborative relationship with DAA,” said Brian McKavanagh, Framework Director at Atkins. “Our goal is to collaborate with DAA to bring sustainability and net-zero carbon emissions to the forefront while using Atkins’ global aviation expertise.” The new framework award follows the recent, highly successful partnership between DAA, Colas, and Atkins on Cork Airport’s main runway rehabilitation, which was completed on schedule, within budget, and to great acclaim during An Taoiseach’s ceremonial opening.