Construction works for the 500,000 square meters Royal arts complex at King Salman Park have officially been announced by the King Salman Park Foundation. The project features a museum that reaches well up to 106 meters in height. There will also be a library that is dedicated to artist studios alongside an institute that will include three academies with their auditoriums with a 600-seat capacity. With these kinds of facilities, artists will have the exceptional opportunity to showcase their talent(s) within the Dome, which on its own is an architectural marvel and an exhibit due to its unique and pure spheroid form. Visual entertainment at the Royal Arts Complex will be offered in the form of a National Theatre which is a multi-performance venue with a 2,300 seating capacity. There will also be a medium theatre present with a 650 seating capacity alongside three cinema halls. The complex is projected to be the centre of Riyadh’s culture and art scene, which will contribute to the creation of a varied and rich cultural legacy aimed at providing visitors with a world-class experience. The King Salman Park is a world-class park and green district located in the city of Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The lead design consultant of the project is Omrania while the master planning and urban design is a combined team effort with Henning Larsen. The infrastructure engineering is headed by Saifo and Omrania. The whole project is managed by Hill International. The King Salman Park covers a total area of 13.3 square kilometres of the grounds of the old airport located in Riyadh. The park is projected to be the largest in the world. The lead design consultant role was awarded to Omrania via international competition. The park will include a variety of cultural, sports, ecological and recreational amenities. Read Also Riyadh Metro Project in Riyadh, the Capital of Saudi Arabia The King Salman Park is one development that is a part of one of the numerous projects that are worth visionary and worth billions of dollars. These projects, initiated by the Saudi Arabian government are to make Riyadh not just a more livable city but an internationally attractive city as well. The project was conceived as some sort of “green heart” for the city of Riyadh. As it is located near the geographic centre of the growing metropolitan city, the park will be served by 10 bus rapid transit stations and five brand new metro stations. The park will include an internal “urban loop”, a circular promenade that will cater to cycling, walking, and other autonomous and sustainable modes of public transportation. Moreover, the King Salman Park project will offer its visitors a climate-responsive personal thermal comfort and urban design strategy that will ensure the activities of cycling and walking are pleasant throughout the whole year. The park’s landscape form will also include a series of branching valleys that have been inspired by Saudi Arabia’s seasonally dry water (wadi) river beds that converge towards the centre of the park. The park was designed by the late Ricardo Bofill, a Spanish architect renowned for several iconic landmarks around the US, Asia, and Europe. The park stretches well over 16 kilometres squared and is linked to an array of main roads. The project is also linked to the Public Transport Project which features Riyadh’s bus and train networks, making the park easily accessible for visitors and residents alike.