Frankfurt Airport Terminal 3 is being built on the site of a former US military base to the south of Frankfurt Airport. The new Terminal 3, designed as the centerpiece of a long-term strategic expansion project, is a critical component in safeguarding Frankfurt Airport‘s future, even in the face of unforeseen circumstances such as the COVID-19 epidemic. As previous crises have demonstrated, the aviation industry eventually recovers and restarts growth. Because of its intrinsic modularity, it is feasible to flexibly schedule the building and opening of its portions based on the real demand for additional capacity. When completed, it will be capable of handling up to 25 million passengers per year. Read also: Largest fast-charging park for Electric Vehicles opened in Germany. The first phase of construction includes the main terminal structure with arrival and departure floors, a marketplace, lounges, and an automated baggage conveyor system, as well as Piers H and J, with a total passenger capacity of 14 million. Passenger traffic is not anticipated to return to pre-pandemic levels until 2026. According to this projection, there are presently no plans to open Terminal 3 (including Pier G) before 2026. Then, with an initial three piers and a capacity of 19 million people per year, operations could begin.  The new terminal’s architecture is cutting-edge. Numerous glass windows flood the generously proportioned halls and areas with sunshine, allowing the designers to forego the use of artificial light sources entirely. Pipes and wires are integrated into the building without interrupting or detracting from the wide-open spaces. The new terminal also raises the bar in terms of sustainability, with only a small amount of heating required thanks to energy-efficient construction techniques and cutting-edge technology. Read also: Renovations for Minneapolis-St Paul Intl’ Airport Silver Ramp Approved The futuristic marketplace in the centre of Terminal 3 is an eye-catching feature with a broad assortment of retail establishments, restaurants, and cafés where travelers may shop or simply pass the time. The lounge area with a view of the apron provides travelers with immediate access to the many stores and restaurants as well as space to relax and unwind. Terminal 3 also has a plethora of activity spaces and services. Children, for example, can occupy themselves in one of the play areas while waiting for their trip. Before boarding their trip or connecting flight, business travelers can spend some productive time undisturbed in the work and connect spaces. Passengers can reach the new terminal quickly and easily because it is well-connected. Fraport is constructing a new Sky Line to connect Terminal 3 with the two current terminals, similar to the present Sky Line. It takes only eight minutes to travel from Terminal 1 to Terminal 3, with a brief stop at Terminal 2. Terminal 3 will be conveniently accessible by taxi, coach, or vehicle, in addition to the new Sky Line. Drivers can park in one of the 8,500 parking spaces available in the parking garage adjacent to the terminal. There are also several hundred bicycle parking places. The project includes the engineering firm Canzler GmbH, whose mission includes the design of building automation, air conditioning, heating, ventilation, and sanitary engineering, as well as the operator Fraport’s support throughout the tendering process.