African Century Group (PTY) LTD., a black female-owned construction enterprise, has turned the first sod marking the start of construction of a 4-star, 120-room Premier Hotel building in Thohoyandou, Limpopo. The hotel will be a key milestone in the tourist industry, as well as the largest 4-star hotel in the extreme northern portion of Limpopo province, in the Vhembe District, which borders Zimbabwe and is just a short distance from the Kruger National Park’s Punda Maria entrance. Nakiseni Business Enterprise, a sister business of the African Century Group company, has been tasked with carrying out construction work of the Premier Hotels building on the town’s north-eastern outskirts. The building will be a contemporary structure with an African flair, comparable to the OR Tambo hotel. The façade will be stone rather than brick, with several ecologically friendly features. Also Read: 97 Houses for Military Veterans Planned for North West, South Africa With about 8697m2 of useable space, the hotel will have 120 rooms, meeting space for up to 450 guests for local business conferences or celebratory gatherings, a business suite, bar & restaurant with a wine bar, outdoor pool, and gym. The 4-star Premier Hotels project is moving along at a rapid rate and is expected to be completed in May 2023. During the construction phase, the project will provide jobs for roughly 480 employees ranging from unskilled local construction labour to highly trained craftsmen, project managers, and so on. It will employ 85 permanent employees and 30 to 40 contract or part-time employees when it formally opens its doors. According to Tsakani Masia, owner and MD of African Century Group, growth creates employment and contributes to environmental change. She stated that the inhabitants of Vhembe, like everyone else, need better socioeconomic amenities. Premier Hotels‘ MD, Samuel Nassimov, on the other hand, reacted to the agreement, adding that they could not have chosen a better partner than the African Century Group. 