The development of First Estoria, a new senior living community project in Minnesota is set to begin soon. The project is developed by Ebenezer Management Services (EMS), one of the largest residential management companies in Minnesota specializing in senior housing. Noteworthy, Ebenezer’s president, A. Luther “Lute” Molberg, was the driving force behind the creation of the first senior living cooperative community in the United States. With the launch of 7500 York in Edina, Minnesota in 1977, his vision became a reality. The model was an instant success, and senior cooperative housing has since spread across the country. Also Read: Construction on Courtyard by Marriott in St Paul, Minnesota to begin soon With origins dating back to 1917, Ebenezer has developed into one of Minnesota’s leading senior living providers, offering thriving communities for all stages of senior life. Including a total of 89 residents, the first phase of the project, Estoria Lakeville will be located in a suburban neighborhood with convenient access to parks, Crystal Lake, shopping, eating, the arts, and downtown Lakeville. The construction process is projected to take 14 to 16 months. Members of the host communities possess a portion of or a split stake in the First Estoria cooperative corporation, which owns the building and property. Decisions are made democratically by an elected board of directors comprised completely of community members, who are backed by several committees of interest, as well as by Ebenezer’s personnel in the Homeowners Association Property Management division. Member-owners also benefit from the cooperative lifestyle’s built-in social possibilities. Members are all of a similar age and frequently in comparable stages of life, and the community layout, common amenity areas, and committee-planned events all contribute to the development of budding friendships that may last a lifetime. To create a home that is truly their own, member-owners can choose from a variety of options such as quality cabinetry, hard surface countertops, appliances, lighting packages, and more. The Estoria Cooperatives Information Center and Showroom is now being built and will open shortly, allowing members to view examples of all possible house finishes.