The government of Ghana through the Ministry of Transport has pledged its commitment to the construction of the proposed Keta Port which it has been working on for the past two years. This was revealed through an address that was read by Mr Hassan Sulemana Tampuli, the deputy minister of transport on behalf of Mr Kweku Ofori Asiamah the head of the ministry, at a brief ceremony to inaugurate a Health Centre at Asadame in the Keta Municipality. Read also: Contractor Moves in to Complete Port Harcourt Maiduguri Rail Project, Nigeria The health centre, as well as other infrastructures such as the Keta Market pavement, a school block, the ongoing construction of a 12-seater toilet facility at Adzido, and the Keta market rehabilitation, were all part of the overall scope of the beach landing site and port for Keta projects, that are being implemented under the government’s premier initiative, coastal fish landing sites and fishing ports infrastructure project. Mr Asiamah in the address said that the government’s commitment to construct the third commercial port in Keta was well on schedule with the feasibility and other investment strategy studies having been completed. A market survey conference to promote the Keta Port project to potential investors had also been held at the Alisa Hotel in Accra. This process is being carried out in conjunction with the Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority. The minister urged Togbiwo and Mamawo, community members, and other stakeholders, including state and non-state actors, to keep on supporting the government in carrying out the critical mission. Reported earlier Sep 2020  The government of Ghana plans to begin the construction of the Keta seaport early next year. This was confirmed by Kwaku Ofori Asiamah, the West African country’s minister of transport when addressing the Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee (PAC). Asiamah said that the feasibility studies for the project are progressing well and are expected to be complete by the third month of 2021. The studies are being carried out by a consortium that comprises ProTeln Service GmbH, PSP Architekten, Ingenieure, and the Ghanaian Yogarib Engineering Services Limited, all of which are headed by Sellhorn Ingenieurgesellschaft mbH. In addition to the feasibility studies, the consortium will also provide a master plan, including a development and investment strategy for the project. Also Read: Ghana receives a loan to fund the expansion of Tema-Aflao road The Keta seaport project began two years ago after President Nana Akufo-Addo of the West African country signed an executive instrument for the start of the implementation of the project. Fast forward to March 2019, the government-appointed Alexander Adusei as the general manager of the future port, and a site for the construction of the facility was selected on the Atlantic coast, on the border with Togo. In February this year, the Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority advertised a tender for the feasibility studies and selected the above-mentioned consultants who began work in April with the first feasibility indicators expected within a  period of seven months. The future seaport of Keta is expected to become Ghana’s third port platform after those of Tema (Accra) and Takoradi. Once operational, in addition to jobs, the facility will offer new opportunities for the Ghanaian port industry. It will also be a privileged gateway for neighbouring landlocked countries, including Burkina Faso, Niger and Mali. Nov 2021  The government of Ghana is preparing for the start of the construction phase of Keta Sea Port project following the completion of related preliminary and preparatory works, according to Kwaku Ofori Asiamah, the West African country’s Minister of Transport. Asiamah made the revelation at a recent stakeholder engagement on the project. He said that “All the behind the scenes activities have been undertaken including the feasibility studies, declaration of the project site as a port zone and the construction of a fully equipped and furnished physical office structure that will serve as a reference point for all developments associated with the Keta Port Project.” Also Read: Contract for Ghana-Burkina Faso rail interconnection project to be awarded Noteworthy, the office is a specially made modular unit where development and planning meetings between Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority (GPHA) and its technical partners would take place. It is also going to have an information centre where all information regarding the project would be acquired by all people including the Keta community members. The Ghanian Minister of Transport said that discussions critical to the commencement of the project are currently ongoing and at an advanced stage and that the procurement processes were expected to be completed by the third quarter of 2022. He also disclosed that the project would be implemented in phases, the first of which will cost approximately US$ 600M. Dubbed the ‘Port Nuclues’, this phase will consist of the main facilities that would also be the key drivers of the commercial port. The facilities, in question, include a commercial port gate with the access control and administration building, a multipurpose terminal with a berth of 500metres, and a RoRo Dock, an oil terminal consisting of a tank farm and an oil jetty. The other facilities are a shipyard with a dedicated basin for floating docks and vessel maintenance, a fishing port and related amenities, small craft services, and access roads.