The former Tyndall Air Force Base located 12 miles east of Panama City in Florida, which was destroyed by Hurricane Michael in 2018 and left 484 buildings damaged beyond repair, has new plans in place to rebuild the military site. The projected US$ 25.5bn in losses included Panama City’s Tyndall Air Force Base, which had been in operation since the 1940s. More than 60% of the base was damaged, including the housing facilities. Tyndall’s rebuilding has been split into 12 zones and is being developed and built by a number of businesses and partners. Also Read: US$78.2 million awarded for Mayla Pompano multifamily project, Florida CDM Smith was chosen to reconstruct Zone 10, which includes a big accommodation complex. Unlike the typical hotel, which has around 80 rooms, the new facility will have 360 standard rooms and suites spread across five levels and two towers, as well as a restaurant, conference spaces, a fitness center, and a new mechanical building. The facility serves as a hotel not just for visiting families and service members, but also for pilots training on F35 planes and senior non-commissioned officers undergoing professional military training. Standard rooms and suites both provide a view of the Gulf of Mexico on one side and St. Andrews Bay on the other. To create a walking atmosphere, an intermodal walkway goes around the whole campus. The US$ 200M projects comply with Miami-Dade construction requirements, including stormwater management, strong winds, and corrosion control, and consider environmental concerns, including marine turtle lighting laws. Because hatching sea turtles are directed to the ocean by the light of the moon, the glass and lighting architecture of the facility restrict the artificial light streaming through windows that may possibly confuse hatchlings. “Military bases are organic in their construction, adding or renovating facilities over time.” It’s not often that we get the chance to establish a brand-new foundation. “We haven’t seen this degree of base development all at once since most of these bases were erected years ago,” said Jeffrey Pitchford, vice president, and architect at CDM Smith.