Plans are underway for the development of a 178-acre Hazelwood Green project, which will transform the site of a former Jones & Laughlin Steel Co. industrial plant in Pittsburgh into a mixed-use neighborhood. The project’s site is situated along the banks of the Monongahela River, stretching across Tecumseh Street, to the intersection of Blair Street and Second Avenue in Hazelwood. The Hazelwood Green property is owned by the Almono Limited Partnership, a group of local foundations that purchased the property in 2002, with long-term plans in mind. The foundations include the Richard King Mellon Foundation, Claude Worthington Benedum Foundation, and The Heinz Endowments. Site preparations for the Hazelwood Green project which include the streets, trails, and sidewalks were already completed in 2020, and now the owners have partnered with Tishman Speyer, a New York-based real estate developer to finalize the development plans for the project. Also Read Related Santa Clara Mixed-Use Development Project Underway in California Tishman will develop the Hazelwood Green site into a mixed-use property consisting of thousands of affordable and market-rate housing units, dense offices and tech spaces, open spaces, and parks, including several restaurants and retail outlets. The Preliminary Land Development Plan for the site includes about 30 acres of urban open space and 98 acres of land for development and Tishman intends to adhere to these plans. In addition, the mixed-use development will also include a Robotics Innovation Center for Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) and the developer expects this building to open in 2024. The Hazelwood Green mixed-use project also makes provision for dense office structures, which will cater to thousands of permanent jobs across various sectors such as advanced manufacturing, tech, retail, and foodservice. The project’s site is expected to accommodate a large concentration of jobs, with over 11,000 jobs within 178 acres. The plans for the residential component of the Hazelwood Green project will consist of about 3,500 residential units, with a percentage of those units subsidized at affordable rates.  Todd Stern, a managing agent for the Almono Limited Partnership, mentioned that the exact percentage of the affordable units is still undecided, but the development partner shares the commitment the owners have to provide affordable housing in the neighborhood.