The construction of a Wellness Center Campus in California has begun following a groundbreaking ceremony carried out in the City of Victorville. The campus, which is a key component in the City’s strategy to reduce homelessness in Victorville, will be carried out on 4.5 acres of City-owned land (Eva Dell Park) that is located at 16902 First St. Also Read: Construction Underway for New US$ 1.3bn UCI Health Complex at UC Irvine Campus, California According to Victorville authorities, upon completion, the 170-bed shelter will have 110 distinct apartments. The dwelling units and related service buildings will total 25,920 square feet of new development. The facility is expected to be the first facility to combine a low-barrier emergency shelter, recuperative care facility, medical clinic, temporary housing, and wraparound support services. The center intends to offer drug addiction counseling, career training and placement, pet care, and housing aid. There will also be a communal garden, leisure facilities, and a dog kennel for residents. The project is supported by a US$28 million Homekey Grant from the California Department of Housing and Community Development. Since its Homelessness Solutions Task Force originally recommended it in 2019, the city has been considering creating the Wellness Center for more than two years. Speaking at the ground-breaking ceremony, Victorville Mayor, Debra Jones said, “We are proud to be among the cities taking action to address the issue of homelessness head-on. By increasing access to shelter, healthcare, and support services, we will reduce homelessness in Victorville; and we will improve the overall quality of life for our community.” The ceremony was attended by approximately 120 people including community members, nonprofits and homeless shelter operators, construction contractors, and elected officials and representatives from the State, County, and neighboring municipalities. “Because there is no one cause of homelessness, we recognized we needed to establish a framework of assistance that provides for the basic human requirements of dignity, health, shelter, and opportunity,” said City Manager Keith Metzler.