The Melbourne to Brisbane Inland Rail project is an Australian Government initiative to repair and build a 1,700km freight railway that, once finished, will allow express trains to travel between Tottenham in Melbourne and Acacia Ridge in Brisbane in less than 24 hours. The Australian and Queensland governments signed a Bi-Lateral Agreement for Inland Rail on November 29, 2019, allowing the project to be completed in Queensland. The Bi-Lateral Agreement establishes the terms and conditions for the development of inland rail in Queensland, including criteria for: Also Read: Australia’s Bruce Highway Upgrade Project In the next years, freight traffic in Queensland is expected to triple, with South East Queensland witnessing the most substantial growth. As part of the effort to plan for this development, the Australian Rail Track Corporation (ARTC) delivers Inland Rail on behalf of the Australian Government. The new Inland Train infrastructure will improve connectivity and increase rail freight volumes from southern and south-west Queensland. The construction of inland rail is a large and demanding endeavor. To ease the delivery of the new and upgraded 1,700km rail line, ARTC has divided the program into 13 sub-projects. The Queensland Government is working with the ARTC on environmental planning, state requirements like the flood panel, future-proofing the corridor for future upgrades, statutory approvals, maximizing the benefits of inland rail to Queensland businesses and communities, and land acquisition for sections of inland rail in Queensland through the Department of Transport and Main Roads (TMR). As the acquiring authority for Queensland’s portion of Inland Rail, TMR will conduct the compulsory land acquisition procedure following Queensland laws stated in the Acquisition of Land Act 1967. TMR will assist ARTC in its interactions with landowners immediately impacted by the planned alignment and individuals with a direct interest in affected properties. Both lessees and occupants are protected. An impartial international panel of experts has been constituted to perform flood research in Queensland. Under the Department of Transport and Main Roads, the Australian and Queensland governments have developed an Independent International Panel of Experts for Flood Studies. The Panel will advise the Australian and Queensland governments on the flood models and structural designs developed for Queensland Inland Rail by the Australian Rail Track Corporation.