The government has set up approximately US$ 11M for the construction of the Chilonga bridge in Zimbabwe this year, which would benefit villages in Chiredzi’s northern and southern districts. Runde, one of Zimbabwe’s largest rivers, divides Chiredzi north and south, separating the district commercial headquarters of Chiredzi in the north from Chikombedzi in the south. Also Read: Construction of 150 Footbridges &#038; 230 Miles of Feeder Pathways in Ethiopia Underway Every year, individuals die while attempting to cross the river from either side during the rainy season, when the low-lying bridge at Chilonga is swamped by floodwaters. This year, only two persons have died after being carried away while attempting to cross the swollen Runde river through the low-level Chilonga bridge. The other bridge crossing Runde used to be in Gonarezhou National Park, dividing the gigantic park in two, but it was swept away by Cyclone Eline more than 20 years ago and has yet to be reconstructed. Lack of financing had impeded plans to create an all-weather bridge at Chilonga. The area’s geology also makes designing and building a secure bridge challenging, as the area near Chilonga includes loose soils that might jeopardize the structure’s foundation. However, the current administration led by President Mnangagwa is going all out to create an all-weather bridge at Chilonga in accordance with Vision 2030. According to the National Development Strategy 1, infrastructure growth is regarded as a crucial facilitator of socioeconomic development, thus the renewed desire to commit more money to projects like the Chilonga bridge. Clemence Chiduwa, Deputy Minister of Finance and Economic Development said the government will build an all-weather bridge at Chilonga this year. Deputy Minister Chiduwa told the Chiredzi community at a meeting to unpack NDS1 that the bridge project was a priority for the government, with a tender for its construction likely to be launched in due time. He added that the Chilonga bridge project was a top priority for the government. The government has stretched its wings in the tendering process for the new Chilonga bridge, with Deputy Minister Chiduwa stating that the project’s complexity demanded the greatest available expertise. To ensure consistent infrastructure development, the tender for the building of the Chilonga bridge will also be accessible to foreign construction companies.   