KFA Architecture developed the Howard and Irene Levine Senior Community for Mercy Housing of California, which offers much-needed housing for Los Angeles veterans and low-income seniors. The six-story, 69,300-square-foot West Los Angeles structure was built on a city-owned, former LADOT parking lot—a vast amount of unused land. It was intended to replace public parking for nearby shops and a synagogue, as well as tenants in a 73-car underground garage. Above the parking floors, the facility contains 48 units of housing for homeless senior veterans and low-income seniors earning 30% and 60% of the local median income, respectively. The monthly rent ranges from US$456 to US$976 USD. Also Read: Construction to Start Soon on New Micro-Unit Apartment Building in Downtown Los Angeles Wide corridors of the structure allow for natural ventilation and light into the interior. A spacious courtyard on the third floor serves as a major meeting spot and offers views of the Hollywood Hills. A communal room, an exercise area, and on-site support and service offices managed by New Directions for Veterans surround the courtyard. Smaller terraces located around the structure provide calmer sitting areas. The roof terrace is outfitted with pots from the community garden and casual seating. Recessed entry doors in alcoves give each apartment a feeling of distinction. The neighborhood is walkable and near to public transportation, markets, cafés, clinics, and other community amenities. The project adds to the fabric of the neighboring neighborhood. All pieces of the Howard and Irene Levine Senior Community are built to be easily accessible and mobile. On their level, each tenant has access to a washing facility. People may assemble outside in small groups thanks to the sequence of smaller outdoor places. Rooftop solar panels and greywater collecting for irrigation contribute to the LEED Gold grade that is expected. “Our design team saw this project as a chance to offer a healthy and sociable atmosphere for seniors, with varying areas that support various levels of solitude and community engagement,” said Kristyn Cosgrove, AIA, Senior Associate at KFA.