Ghana Audit Service began work on a new Eastern Regional office complex facility in Koforidua to solve the service’s office issues in the area. A reception area, executive offices, general offices, workshop rooms, archives, a restroom, storage, a server room, a kitchen, a guard room, and ancillaries are all included in the office. The Ghana Audit Service is a separate government body responsible for auditing the government’s finances, regional accounts, and the activities of government ministries, departments, agencies, and companies. Read also: Sod Cut for Construction of New Fujifilm Head Office in Sandton, South Africa The Volta, Central, and Eastern regions, as well as the districts of Dodowa, Apam, Twifo, Praso, Asamankese, Bibiani, Atebubu, Bole, and Kintampo, are all part of phase one of the current office projects in three regions and 16 districts. At the recent sod-cutting event, Mr. Johnson Akuamoah Asiedu, Auditor-General of the Ghana Audit Service, said that the construction of regional and district audit office buildings will help keep personnel away from influences that might undermine their responsibility. He added that many audit service offices were in temporary construction, rented, or client properties, putting auditor independence and productivity at risk. Mr. Asiedu also stated that any attempt to expand the organization’s office space in order to remove its workers from customer premises was a very positive move and he considered it the right path. KfW Country Director, Mr. Anndt Wiehierm, a German Development Bank that is supporting the project, The contract to construct the office was awarded to Alternate Krystal Constructions Limited, with work commencing in January 2022 and projected to be finished in December 2022. The first phase of the project will be financed by a 13-million euro loan from the German government. He went on to say that the second phase will cost 11.5 million euros and will be constructed in the six newly formed regions and districts. He reckoned that once finished, the project will address the Ghana Audit Service’s need for office space. Mr. Seth Kwame Acheampong, Eastern Regional Minister, gave a remark on behalf of Vice President Mahamudu Bawumia, stating that the government was dedicated to retooling and providing infrastructure for state institutions to be able to execute their mission. He stated that all sectors, including health, education, and local government, had acquired their due share of infrastructure and resources, notably cars and other important equipment. According to Mr. Acheampong, the Ghana Audit Service, being a critical component of the government framework, was not to be disregarded, which is why regional and district office complexes were constructed. In order to equip them with developing economic management trends and allow them to effectively carry out their duties, he encouraged the service to conduct regular capacity-building programs for its management and personnel.