Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL) is currently undergoing its Concourse T expansion project, which will bring an additional five-passenger gate to the 17 already existing gates on that concourse, including 6,000 square feet of concessions space for eateries and retail components. This is the first upgrade taking place at the airport in almost 10 years since the international terminal in concourse F was completed in 2012. ATL’s Concourse T expansion project is being developed through a joint venture between Skanska, Atlanta’s New South Construction, FS360 of Sandy Springs, GA, and Synergy Development Partners based in Atlanta. The expansion project is estimated at $259 million and the funding is expected to be covered by the $600 million federal Infrastructure bill for airports in the state of Georgia recently passed by the US Congress. The ATL Concourse T expansion project is part of a long-term vision that aligns with the goal of transforming one of the most-heavily-traveled airports, into a more convenient place to navigate and also keeping it attractive for both the passengers and airlines that choose to route their flights through ATL. Designs used for the Concourse T expansion also took into consideration the optimal airplane maneuverability requirements, which would preserve wingtip safety zones outside, as the aircraft pushes in and out of the gates and navigates the taxiways. Also Read The US$14.5 billion Los Angeles Airport (LAX) Modernization Project Some major site work was also done in preparation for the expansion project, which included identifying buried utility infrastructure, recording positions of lines for safe digging, relocation of water mains and other infrastructure, laying fiber network to support ATL’s internet and communications networks, and the installation of 20-inch concrete apron paving to service the five new gates. The ATL Concourse T expansion project also resulted in the repositioning of Fire Station 32 and Delta’s Ground Support Equipment facility at the airport. Reconstruction of Fire Station 32 and the site work for the Delta GSE are being covered under this contract. Construction on Concourse T is expected to be rounded up by December 2023.