Zomba City Mayor Councilor Davie Maunde has stated that the Zomba Stadium in Malawi will be ready for usage in July this current year. Councilor Maunde underlined his confidence during a tour of the Zomba Stadium, saying he was delighted with the contractor’s pace and craftsmanship despite several financial problems ranging from delayed government payments to Covid-19 work limitations. He stated that the government has assured the Zomba City Council that it would complete the project as soon as possible and that he, as mayor, will closely supervise the project to guarantee that it is completed by July. He noted that the Super League Red Lions had been refused the use of the stadium as a home venue and that the team now plays in Balaka Stadium. Also Read: Marka-Bangula Railway Project Contract Awarded, Malawi Mayamiko Kabango, Chief Engineer of Zomba City Council, stated that the building of the Zomba Stadium is nearing completion, despite the fact that the contractors encountered various hurdles, such as delayed payments. Kabango stated that the Zomba City Council agreed with the contractor to allow the stadium for usage, despite the stadium’s third phase having not yet been completed. The construction on the part of the stands and the VIP area would be completed by the planned opening month of July, according to the Chief Engineer. Kabango stated that if not for the Covid-19 epidemic, financial constraints, and frequent high rains, the project, which began in 2017, would have been completed by October 2021. lgnacio Ngoma Jr, an engineer with DEC Building Company, claimed the construction of the Zomba Stadium had been delayed due to repeated high rains following hurricanes Anna and Gombe and delayed payments from the government. He did, however, express hope that the second portion of the project would be done by July, adding that soccer fans could expect to see teams play by that time. Ngoma stated that DEC Construction Company was nearing completion of netball, basketball, and volleyball courts and a jogging track. The construction of Zomba Stadium began in 2017 and has taken five years, depriving citizens in Zomba and surrounding areas of the opportunity to witness Super League matches. The Zomba Stadium is planned to hold 20,000 people.