Legal and General Investment Management (LGIM) Real Assets has selected ISG, a privately-owned, London, UK-based construction company that was formerly known as Interior Services Group, for the implementation of Project Tempo in Maidenhead, a market town in the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead in the county of Berkshire, England. The project will regenerate a 1.4-acre site on which a 112,000ft2 former office sits into a completely refurbished commercial destination, delivering an additional 21,500 sq ft of space, with new communal spaces and green infrastructure, placing people and sustainability at the heart of the new building. According to the terms, the scope of work comprises the entire demolition of the current four-story building in order to create a sustainable workplace while focusing on the occupier’s journey experience. The inhabitants will benefit from creative and outdoor areas with interior atriums, as well as the inclusion of three rooftop pavilions and roof terraces, totaling 11,000ft2 of biodiverse space. Also Read: Redevelopment of United Artists Building to Begin Soon, Detroit Project Tempo, which is expected to be one of the greenest structures in the Thames Valley, will prioritize retention and reuse principles over a complete demolition and new-build approach. The restoration will keep the majority of the present stone exterior while adding a modern glazed façade to the building’s appearance. Using the Design for Performance approach, the project is aiming for a BREEAM ‘Excellent’ rating upon completion, as well as Net Zero Carbon operation, with a total building energy consumption of 130kWh/sqm(GIA)/yr. Its roof will house low-energy technology such as over 5,000ft2 rooftop solar panels and air source heat pump technology, resulting in a 39 percent reduction in carbon emissions. Project Tempo aims to achieve the highest rating of energy efficiency – EPC A and BREEAM Excellent rating which will make the building one of the greenest workspaces in the Thames Valley. Expectations for the Project Tempo Project Tempo will show how best-in-class workspace and amenities may be offered through a retrofit approach to existing facilities, repurposing and enhancing what is already there to reduce embodied carbon and maximize continuous operating energy efficiency for its users. This development, located in the heart of Maidenhead, contributes to the region’s growth and helps it work toward a more sustainable future. The project, which is being delivered by ISG Construction South’s Workplace team, shows the high levels of ESG credentials and building quality that we are committed to providing for our clients along the M4 corridor in the London Homes Counties, Thames Valley, and Bristol regions.