Robinson Weeks Partners, an industrial real estate development firm based in Atlanta has announced its plans to start construction next month on its Southridge Crossing industrial project. This 234,360-square-foot spec warehouse will be the company’s third location in Memphis located at 6401 E. Shelby Drive in Tennessee. According to the Senior V.P of acquisitions and development at Robinson Weeks, Tyler Jones, Southridge Crossing  is expected to be completed by the end of 2022. The warehouse would be move-in-ready on completion, offering tenants office spaces, ample auto and trailer parking, warehouse lights, and 42 dock doors with two drive-in doors. Also Read NorthPark35 Building5 Industrial Project in Georgetown Breaks Grounds Southridge Crossing will be developed at an ideal market location, which is in close proximity to the Memphis International Airport, known as the world’s busiest freight airport. The single-load speculative warehouse facility also provides tenants easy access to major transportation routes such as I-55, I-69 and I-40; a variety of other transportation options are available, including the five Class 1 railway lines in Memphis, which will enable the future tenants to gain easy access to about 70% of the U.S. population within a two-day drive time. Jones mentioned that Southridge Crossing would leverage on the logistics advantages of the region and build on the success  of the company’s two previous projects already in the market. He also said that the company’s last two projects had sold out quickly in Memphis. DHL leased the first project, which was named Memphis Global Crossing I, and  MaxTool purchased the second one, named Memphis Global Crossing II. The Senior V. P for Leasing and Development at Robinson Weeks Partners, Matt Davis also pointed out that projects like Southridge Crossing had great potential especially in distribution hubs like Memphis, with a massive need for speculative industrial space. Davis added that the Memphis submarket has limited speculative options available for large-scale distribution hubs and Robinson Weeks was now taking steps to meet this demand. He said the company has accelerated the construction timeline and is looking forward to a rapid lease-up once this move-in-ready building comes into the market.