Officials at Nucor Corp have announced that construction will begin soon on a US$2.7 billion state-of-the-art sheet steel mill in Mason County, West Virginia. According to the firm, the new mill will be capable of producing 84-inch sheet products and will include a 76-inch tandem cold mill and two galvanizing lines. The mill will have the capacity to produce up to 3 million tons of sheet steel every year. The steel will be used in the automotive, HVAC, appliance, agricultural, heavy equipment, transportation, and construction sectors. It will also initially have advanced downstream processing capabilities including annealing, a tandem cold mill, and two galvanizing plants. Also Read: Construction breaks ground on US$529 million levee project in Kansas A sophisticated high-end automotive line with complete inspection capabilities, as well as a construction-grade line, will be available for galvanizing. The mill, when completed, is estimated to provide roughly 800 high-quality manufacturing jobs. The state-of-the-art facility’s construction, which will begin in 2022, will create an extra 1,000 employment. Nucor anticipates that the Mason County project will be operating by 2024. In addition, the steel firm revealed that it is considering constructing a trans-loading and processing facility in the northern portion of the state in order to develop a bigger logistical network to better serve its clients in the upper Midwest and Northeast. “We are excited to break ground in the vicinity and collaborate with universities and colleges on workforce development programs. We also look forward to supporting veterans’ organizations and local food pantries, and working with opioid recovery programs to provide meaningful pathways to jobs,” said John Farris, the general manager and vice president of Nucor Steel West Virginia. “This is a great achievement for our beautiful state of West Virginia.” There has been a lot of hard work and devotion put into making this a reality, and there is no doubt that West Virginia is the finest home for this steel plant,” said state Department of Economic Development Secretary Mitch Carmichael.