Developer McLaren Living has presented plans for the Water Lane project in Leeds, South Bank Regeneration area. The modern £85m build-to-rent residential scheme is designed by Carey Jones Chapman Tolcher (CJCT) and will transform the former car park place, currently vacant, into a vibrant new neighbourhood with 375 apartments. The Water Lane project will comprise of shared workspaces, residents’ lounges, gym, and events spaces with roof gardens set on floor 1, 9, and 14. Gardens with a variety of rich mix of plants will be created at the ground level, while a vibrant concierge space will offer a welcoming area to sit, relax and meet within the building, which also links to the residents’ gym. The first-floor flexible amenity area links directly to extensively landscaped communal area, along with private dining area, co-working space, and a spinning/ yoga studio, offering an essential part for experience and communal life of the residents. The proposals comprise of 226 resident cycle spaces, a 38 visitor bikes and 51 car parking lots. Read also: £60m committed for Scotland’s public electric vehicle charging network. McLaren Living’s Managing Director, Matthew Biddle, stated: “We’re extremely happy to be working with Leeds City Council to develop this landmark project, bringing forward attainable and high-quality homes in this highly accessible region. “We are devoted to Leeds, being a city well-connected and great retail, leisure facility as well as growing reputation as an attractive headquarters location, which results to a huge potential for investment and growth. Currently, we’re bringing forward two build-to-rent projects in the city, with the well-located rented accommodation set to receive high resident demand. Water Lane is a great example of the high-quality residential project we always create, aiming on the resident experience and ensuring we offer sustainable and thriving modern neighbourhood.” McLaren Living appointed Allsop to source an investment partner, with the project set to begin this summer.