According to a recent announcement by the governor of Springfield, JB Pritzker, the Houbolt Road Bridge project in Joliet is moving forward with the next phase of its construction along the Interstate 80 corridor. Construction on I-80 started in the summer of 2021 and so far it has replaced a lot of aging infrastructure that’s over 50 decades old. The Houbolt Road Bridge project is part of a mega $33.2 billion  Rebuild Illinois initiative plan which involves redeveloping 16 miles of Interstate 80 over the next six years and the improvement of all types of transportation systems across the state. According to the Governor, the state’s share of this public private partnership is $32 million and The City of Joliet will be in charge of overseeing the $33.5 million Houbolt Road project. Also Read ICC approves US$18m for major road construction projects in Illinois Development plans for the Houbolt Road Bridge project involves widening of the road and reconfiguration of the Interstate 80 interchange into a diverging diamond design. In addition, a new toll Bridge will also be built on Houbolt Road over the Des Plaines River; an inland port company named CenterPoint Properties, plans to invest about $170 million towards the development of this toll bridge, which will provide a link between Interstate 80 and CenterPoint’s intermodal facilities in Joliet and Elwood. The Director of the Illinois Department of Transportation, Omer Osman, mentioned that the construction of Interstate 80 is aimed at alleviating congestion and improving safety. He said these improvements will play a role in reducing emissions produced by traffic, shortening long commuting routes, ensuring safety and bringing more businesses to the neighboring communities. The toll bridge construction will also offer more opportunities to workers, logistic companies and industries who depend on the infrastructure of the area. Developers are hopeful that the weather will be favorable enough to allow the relocation  of facilities this winter and afterwards they intend to continue the next construction phase of the Houbolt Road Bridge project in spring. Another portion of Interstate 80 as well as the interchange is expected to be completed in the summer of 2023, while Route 6 is scheduled for completion this October.