Construction of a $13.6 million Battle Co-packing Facility will soon commence at the Deerfield Business Park in  Mooresville. This project is to be developed by the Atlanta based Battle Co Packing company; a renowned provider of packaging and bottling services for various beverages, which has been in operation for over 40 years. The company has budgeted $13.6 million to cover the construction costs of building the new 128,000-square-foot Battle Co-packing Facility and also for the costs of purchasing the required cutting edge equipment; which will enable the company provide support for various refreshment brands by filling different kinds of beverages going from soda drinks, enhanced seltzers, caffeinated beverages, and other alcoholic beverages. The expected completion date for this project has been set for December 31, 2022. Also Read $42 M Coca-Cola Bottling Facility expansion breaks ground in Louisiana The Battle Co-packing Facility is intended for targeting both new and current customers seeking packaging and bottling services. This new packaging facility, on completion, will also create about 20 new full-time employment opportunities with average salaries higher than the Iredell County average wage. Economic development incentive grants were also approved for the project by the Iredell County commissioners and the Mooresville Board of Town Commissioners; the funding was worth about  $263,665 and $303,481 respectively. The Executive V.P of Strategic Development at Battle & Associates, Jerry Kaufman, mentioned that Mooresville was the perfect place to live, raise children and invest. Kaufman said the Battle Co-packing Facility was a great investment in the area, which would bring good jobs that perfectly suit the deep-skilled labor pool found in the region. He also mentioned that the company was excited to grow with the community. Miles Atkins, the Mooresville Mayor, said the announcement of this Battle Co-packing Facility in Mooresville demonstrates the town’s available infrastructure  and its ability to provide support and draw in rapidly growing companies. Atkins added, “Mooresville is excited to welcome Battle Copacking to our business community and celebrate their choice to do business in our county.” The Battle Co-packing Facility is being developed through the collaborative effort of the following partners: The Town of Mooresville, Iredell County Economic Development Corporation, Iredell County, North Carolina Community College System, and Mitchell Community College.