GBT Realty, a developer based in Brentwood, Tennessee recently acquired a construction loan from Commerce Bank, for the development of the Southcrest Reserve, a 108-unit multifamily complex rising as high as three stories. The company is now set to commence construction on the apartment complex which will be situated at Old Burkitt Road and Nolensville Pike. Southcrest. Construction plans for Southcrest Reserve will cover a variety of amenities for the residents of the 108 multifamily units, which include a fitness Palace, a lounge and co-working areas. Pools and communal grills will also be part of the designs. In addition, a retail center named Southcrest Center is being built adjacent to the apartment complex and is set to open in mid-2022. Tenants for the Southcrest retail center have been lined up already, and are awaiting completion of construction. The tenants will include Health land Dental, Valvoline, Orange Theory Fitness, McAlister’s Deli, Wendy’s and Scooter’s Coffee. Also Read Birmingham develops world’s tallest Octagon residential tower According to the Managing Director at CBT Craig Cole, the amenities will be built en-suite, giving residents complete access to them and likewise residents will be able to access the on-site retailers around the area. The location of Southcrest Reserve also makes it easier for residents to commute to and from downtown, as it is located along a major Transit corridor. It’s proposed completion date is set for fall of 2023, and GBT plans to begin pre-leasing the units in the spring of 2023. Tennessee-based Hardcastle construction company was selected as the general contractor for the project. Cole mentioned that the company was pleased to move forward with the new Southcrest Reserve multifamily complex, in addition to its retail component, Southcrest Center. He pointed out that this new development will offer housing options for the bustling, multicultural, and dynamic area of Nashville. Cole also gave more insights on the ongoing Southcrest retail center, which he described as a retail mix, offering dining, health and fitness services that will benefit not just the Southcrest Reserve residents but residents across the whole location.