A new Hilton hotel, specifically the Hampton Inn by Hilton and Homewood Suites by Hilton, has been opened on Indianapolis Canal Walk. The hotel, located at 414 W. Vermont St., sits on the historic site of the Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church, which was founded in 1836 and was the city’s first African American church. Sun Development & Management Corp., located in Indianapolis, bought the site in 2016, pledging to incorporate parts of the historic three-story tower into the design of the 231-room hotel. The hotel was planned and constructed to complement the existing religious complex. In a news statement, the developer and hotel management stated that visitors will be greeted within a fragment of the chapel. Also Read: Construction to begin on The Lofts at Headwaters Park, Indiana The seven-story hotel has 123 Hampton Inn rooms and 108 Homewood suite rooms, as well as 11,000 square feet of event space, including an outdoor rooftop terrace. A 24-hour fitness center, two indoor patios, a grill, and an indoor pool will be shared features at the resort. Breakfast will be provided at no cost by both hotel brands. This year will see the opening of a Starbucks and a McAllister’s Deli. “By combining these two category-leading brands and their signature, yet distinct, identities under one roof, we are further advancing our commitment to providing quality lodging options to meet a wide range of styles, travel needs, and desired price points,” said general manager Angela Ramirez in a press release. Along with Hilton Hotel Indianapolis Canal Walk, the Hotel Giant has recently opened the 107-suite Home2 Suites by Hilton Whitestown Indianapolis NW in Whitestown, Indiana. The Grand Park Sports Campus, Indiana Motor Speedway, Indy Car Exchange, and Indianapolis International Airport are all nearby. Each apartment will include a fully equipped kitchen and modular furnishings, as well as unique Home2 Suites features like the Spin2 Cycle combined laundry and workout room, Home2 MKT for grab-and-go products, and the Inspired Table, which serves a complimentary daily breakfast.