Automatic Brick Laying Robot (ABLR) secured accreditation from NHBC, the housing warranty and insurance provider in UK. Yorkshire-based Construction Automation developed the brick-laying robot which can construct external walls, laying all the bricks, blocks and mortar, while moving on a track around the building’s foundations. NHBC team did the assessment for over a year – undergoing careful inspection and testing of the robot in action. The ‘NHBC Accepts’ accreditation implies it can now be deployed in the construction of new developments covered by all NHBC warranty products in subject to installation and appropriate design. Read also: King’s College Hospital to construct a £21 million new outpatient services building. NHBC Innovation Manager, Richard Lankshear, stated: “It has been a rigorous, year-long struggle both for the team and Construction Automation and comprised a tremendously diligent process. Modern Methods of Construction (MMC) hold a significant role in the delivery of new homes in the United Kingdom and addressing the housing crisis, so it’s so encouraging to see modern technology like Automatic Brick Laying Robot getting through.The residential property industry is under pressure to enhance the volume of modern homes, followed with materials pressure, skills and labour, MMC is at essential stage. We’re delighted to be able to deploy our scale, knowledge and expertise to work with manufacturers and provide developers, lenders, investors and homebuyers with trust that innovative modern products and systems can fulfil the same high standards of durability and quality as traditionally-built properties.” Director at Construction Automation, David Longbottom added: “Over the last year, we’ve partnered with NHBC and we are much proud to be the sole innovator in the Bricklaying Robot space, achieving NHBC Accepts approval. We believe that this will give confidence for our product in the housebuilding Industry. We are pleased for what the future holds, and how to lead in enhancing on-site productivity, improve on-site health, guarantee quality and safety and close the skills shortage gap in the Industry.”