The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) was granted approval by the federal government to proceed with the final planning for the Second Avenue Subway Phase2 expansion. This project has moved to the engineering phase of the project timeline and it entails a 2.41km extension of the Second Avenue subway line, from the 96th street to the 125th street in East Harlem. The first phase was New York’s biggest subway extension project  in over 50 years, which expanded the Q line from 63rd St to 96th St. It became operational  on 1 January 2017 and since then the Second Avenue Subway has carried about 200,000 passengers per day. The construction costs of the Second Avenue Subway Phase2 extension is estimated at $6.3 billion, and the MTA is hopeful that at least half of the expenses would be taken care of by federal funding. Although the project has moved into the engineering phase, further documents would still be required for it to qualify for the federal grant. Phase 2 also covers the construction of three new subway stations, at 106th St, 116th St, and 125th St in East Harlem. Each of these stations will have above ground supplementary structures, containing ventilation, mechanical and electrical hardware; these structures will also incorporate spaces for conceivable ground-floor retail as well. Also Read US$60 million High Line expansion will connect park to train hall, New York The Second Avenue Subway Phase2 expansion will expand on the achievement of Phase1 by bringing the total number of subway riders to 300,000 per day; which according to Janno Lieber, the MTA Acting Chair and CEO, happens to be the equivalent of the entire Philadelphia railway framework. Lieber also said  the Phase 2 would serve a region known for being among one of the largest concentrations of affordable housing, where about 70% of its residents are dependent on public transportation for commuting to work. The U.S.Senator, Kirsten Gillibrand mentioned that the Second Avenue Subway Phase2 expansion was a federal investment capable of making a real difference in the lives of East Harlem residents. Gillibrand said he was glad that the second phase of the project had advanced toward the grant processing stage. He also pointed out that expanding the Second Avenue Subway line would ease congestion, reduce commuting time for riders, create local employment opportunities and ensure more flawless transit access; linking the local area with other parts of the city.