Kolter Group has plans of developing its $140 million Art House Tower, which is intended to be a sleek, 42-story condominium tower with a modern contemporary design; comparable to  the developer’s other projects in Tampa Bay which include ONE St. Petersburg and Saltaire St. Petersburg. This new 42 story Art House Tower will be developed on a 0.4acre parking lot at 200 Central Avenue; which Kolter purchased last month from Third Lake Capital at $20.45 million. Based on the submitted plans, this new development will feature 6,100 square feet of commercial space; 248 residential units, comprising two- and three-bedroom units; and provision for 482 parking spaces inside a garage. Also Read Birmingham develops world’s tallest Octagon residential tower Several enhanced amenities will also be included in the Art House Tower development; residents will have access to amenities such as a game room, theater room and wellness center, dog park, pool, spa, formal social and dining spaces and two guest suites. In addition, an entrance will be made available on First Avenue South to improve accessibility for the Residents. San Francisco-based SB Architects, the company that also designed ONE St. Petersburg and the Saltaire will be in charge of designing the Art House Tower Project. Other companies involved in the project include Smith and Associates Real Estate, serving as the brokerage firm for the condo sales and the marketing firm, ULA. The developers expect construction  to begin in the last quarter of 2022. Kolter, in an announcement described  the Art House Tower, as “the latest innovation in downtown St. Petersburg living.” Kolter also stated that the 42 story luxury residential tower which is located in the heart of the city, will offer residents sweeping views of the bay and city. According to the company, the new tower is intended to deliver an uncompromising, contemporary lifestyle at the core of this vibrant downtown location; and they expect the Art House to provide a lively setting, humming with various activities ranging from restaurants, shopping, nightlife, culture, music, and so much more.