The Port Property Management mixed-use development, worth US$72 million, has begun construction in Portland, Oregon. The project, situated at 52 Hanover St in Portland, is scheduled to open in the summer of 2023. It will include a 171-unit residential complex as well as 6,500 square feet of retail space. It is the final of six Portland Public Works Department buildings identified for redevelopment by the city in April 2017. The building was designed by Cube3, a Massachusetts-based architecture company, and has 171 studio, one-bedroom, and two-bedroom homes, with 10% of the units serving as worker housing. The upscale mixed-use project, which has yet to be named, will be Port Property’s largest residential project to date. Also Read: Oregon Health &#038; Science University set to expand hospital The building also has parking for residents on the bottom two floors. There will be fire pits, plants, and a water feature in a grassy courtyard. There will also be a bicycle repair and storage room for tenants, as well as two lobbies, one of which will have a mezzanine. Outside, a “living wall” of plants will adorn the Parris Street garage wall. Although the property business generally handles their own building projects, they have contracted the Penobscot General Contractors of Rockport as their construction firm. “We’ve demolished the old public works building and are working on the land.” Construction will take between 16 and 18 months. It’s going to be fantastic. It’s a grandiose, lovely project. There are apartments, stores, and a parking garage. “It will breathe new life into West Bayside,” said co-owner and developer Tom Watson of Port Property Management. Other projects include redeveloping the neighboring old Bayside Village redevelopment into 196 units of workforce housing, redeveloping the Riverdam mill in Biddeford, and redeveloping the Saco-Lowell mill in Biddeford. Port Property Management previously transformed another of Portland’s public works sites, 82 Hanover St., into a mixed-use complex with bars, restaurants, and office space.