The Lokichar Oil Project is still on hold pending the acquisition of investors. The Lokichar oil project entails the development of oil wells in Turkana and the construction of a crude oil pipeline to Lamu. The project is estimated to cost US$3.4billion. It is owned by African Oil, British oil exploration firm Tullow Oil and Total. Currently the stakeholders are searching for investors to carryout the project but none has been secured to date. Reported November 2019 The government of Kenya has been presented with two designs for the construction of the Lokichar-Lamu crude oil pipeline (LLCOP). The two designs, by British firm Wood Group Plc., have a price variation of US $122.2m. The East African country can opt for a pipeline with onshore storage facilities that would cost US $1.2bn to build or one with floating storage facilities at a cost of US $1.1bn. Also Read: Construction of Kenya’s Turkana-Lamu crude pipeline to begin next year In both cases, the proposals indicate that the construction of the onshore pipeline will cost US $568.2m, pump stations US $164.4m with the difference mainly being in the marine terminal that will cost US $145.9m for onshore and US $45m for floating storage. About US $113.6m is set aside for the company that will be contracted to execute the project under an engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) basis, and approximately US $13.1m for the supervising firm. The EPC tendering process is on the go with the final investment decision expected to be reached in the second half of next year. Partners in this project have been keen to ensure the project does not encounter environmental-related obstacles from conservationists and environmentalists, as manifested in the front end engineering design (FEED) and the environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) studies. The ESIA, undertaken by Golder, a British consultancy firm in partnership with the Kenyan based ESF Consultants, has been submitted to the National Environment Management Authority and it is expected to be approved by May 2020. The FEED report indicates that the pipeline will divert in areas where it could have adverse environmental implications on wildlife. In particular, a 3km diversion has been created along its path in Samburu County to protect the habitat of the Grevy’s Zebra. This has resulted in a 9% increase in the length of the pipeline to 824km. ordinarily, the straight line distance between the start and finish points would be 756km.  Reported in January 2021 Tullow Oil plc, a well-established, recognized oil and gas explorer and producer headquartered in London, UK, has submitted the final development plan (FDP) for the Lokichar Oil Project in Kenya The FDP was deposited with the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum (MoEP), which generates policies that are designed to create an enabling environment for efficient operation and growth of the energy sector in the East African country. The MoEP is therefore expected to undertake a review of the plan from whose result will set the path for a potential final investment decision on the local oil exploits. The submission of the final development plan comes on the backdrop of the raised stakes for the Lokichar Oil Project following a redesign of the development in the first half of 202. Also Read: Agreement for Lessos-Loosuk & Kisumu-Musaga Transmission Lines Project in Kenya According to Tullow Oil, the daily output from the project increased to 120,000 barrels (bbls) from the previously estimated 72,000 bbls. The volumes of oil deposits also increased by 152 million barrels from 433 million barrels to a gross of 585 million barrels. The raised stakes for the project cleared up doubts over the viability of the Lokichar Oil Project, which has remained in the exploration stage since the discovery of oil in the Lokichar basin back in the early 2010s. The multinational oil and gas exploration company estimates that it will spend roughly US$ 3.4bn to deliver the first commercial oil. This cost entails digging additional wells and the development of a pipeline connecting the Turkana oil fields and the port of Lamu. According to the company, which in October 2021 announced that it was stepping up its search for a strategic partner to help it implement its development plan, it would cost approximately US$ 22 to produce a barrel of oil.