McLaren Construction has been awarded by Camden Council a £100m tender to reclad four towers located at the Chalcots Estate.  The specifications, surveys and technical designs for the four tower blocks is already completed. The pre-construction stage will commence imminently. Work will begin early in 2022 on the site and the new cladding installation will start in the summer being part of a schedule of works that will make the contractor work at the same time on two towers. Because of its different structure, a separate two stage tender is awarded to John Graham Construction for the fifth tower block for ‘design and build’ on the estate, Blashford. This will allow the construction to begin on the building earlier than would have been the case if Blashford was part of the same tender as the other tower blocks. Read also: Hornsea 2 Wind Farm Officially Starts Producing Power The procurement panel for the residents were again a crucial part for the procurement process on the £100m tender to reclad four towers, making sure voices of the residents were heard throughout and help to get a contractor that would:  give a proposal that would meet design specifications, offer a great focus on resident care and disruption minimization, get the right team and subcontractors to do the work , concentrate on materials, staff, and site management of good quality as well as developing an effective and detailed programme that offers value for money .  Better Homes Cabinet Member, Councillor Meric Apak stated: “This is an important step forward and I believe the residents will be excited to see the appointment as they share the determination to see construction and the £100m tender to reclad four towers get underway as soon as possible with covid safe measures put in line.  I would like to thank residents for the great role they have had in the appointment including the resident procurement panel, who have given up their own time to make sure voices of the residents have been heard throughout the process. .