The Goringhaicona Khoi Khoin Indigenous Traditional Council (GKKITC) has filed an order against Amazon‘s current building project near the Liesbeek River in Cape Town, where the internet retailer plans to create its Amazon African headquarters. This is in contrast to The First Nations Collective (FNC), a fellow Khoisan organization that supports the building project. Also Read: South Africa to Launch Three Nanosatellites One of the attorneys representing the GKKITC, Hercules Wessels, senior associate at Cullinan and Associates, said that they were arguing that the consultation process was flawed from the start and that the fact that the GKKITC did not participate in that specific consultation did not mean that they waived their right to any consultation. Meanwhile, the FNC stated that they support the proposal because of the “world-class facilities” that will “empower the First Nations.” An indigenous garden for growing traditional medicinal herbs, an amphitheatre where the group may perform traditional songs and dance, and a cultural media centre are among the amenities available. More than 56,000 individuals signed a petition against the almost $300 million construction. The business in charge of the building is Liesbeek Leisure Properties Trust (LLTP), which claims the project would create employment, attract foreign investment, and improve Cape Town’s quality of life. The location, which is located at the confluence of two rivers, is the ancestral home of Southern Africa’s early Khoi and San people. For these indigenous peoples, it has cosmological, spiritual, and environmental importance. Following their triumph over the Portuguese, the Khoi went on to fight the Dutch in 1659. After the Dutch won, colonial governor Jan Van Riebeek initiated a land-disposal campaign, which academics and activists argue lay the groundwork for what would eventually become apartheid white minority rule. The land still holds a lot of historical, spiritual and cultural significance to the Khoi people. The battle over the construction of the Amazon African headquarters on this land is still ongoing.