Plans are underway for a $3.5 million Fort William Henry Renovation in Albany. The hotel renovation project has been planned for three phases and the first phase is already in progress. Phase I will  cover the renovation of the 36 annex guest rooms, expanding the kitchen and the inclusion of an outdoor three-season porch, with a view overlooking Lake George’s southern banks. The Fort William Henry Renovation project will take place alongside the hotel’s rebranding. According to Sam Luciano, the hotel President, the time is just right for the hotel to adopt a new logo. Luciano pointed out that the original brand had served them quite well, over the past years; but after some consideration it became necessary to create a new brand that could communicate what we are all about more effectively. He said the new logo is designed to incorporate the feeling of Lake George, the Adirondacks, and the role which The Fort William Henry plays in the community. Also Read $5 M DoubleTree hotel renovation completed in Memphis The first phase of The Fort William Henry Renovations will begin with the guest rooms and these rooms are expected to be completed by early February 2022, just in time to host the Ice Castles; an event with LED-lighted ice sculptures, which is intended to attract about 10,000 visitors to Lake George in winter. The rooms will undergo a complete overhaul which covers the replacement of  tubs with tiled showers In addition, 27 rooms are being renovated in the grand hotel and further upgrades have been planned for the 64-unit section which could be started in the current or future phases. Phase I is to be completed by the first half of 2022. BBL Construction Services of Albany was hired  as the general contractor in charge of the Fort William Henry Renovations. The other companies working on this project include, Design and Supply as the Interior Designers, and HBT Architects of Rochester. The entire three phase project still has a long way to go before completion and is scheduled to be completed by the summer 2024.