The groundbreaking of an Altis Blue Lake Community in Lake Worth, was recently made public by the partner companies involved in the housing project. Altman Companies and J.P. Morgan Global Alternatives formed a partnership and are working towards developing this 318-unit Luxury Garden Apartment Community. Located west Pine Avenue and south of the Florida Power & Light Substation, at 4299 Jog Road, the Altis Blue Lake Community will be developed on a 24 acre plot of land; which was purchased by Altman from a pair of limited liability companies managed by Nanula. This 318-unit apartment complex will feature one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments and also offer residents several amenities which include  a clubhouse spanning across 6,000-square-feet, a private conference room, a gaming room, a 24/7 fitness center, and a Starbucks café providing entry into the workspace lounges. Also Read Construction of an Easton Park Community in Southeast Arizona Residents of the Altis Blue Lake Community will be offered exclusive membership to the clubhouse, and this gives them admittance to additional amenities within such as, a resort-style swimming pool encompassed by cabanas, barbecuing stations, a pool pavilion and a wellness treatment space for unwinding. The interior design of each apartment unit will incorporate spa-style bathrooms furnished with double sink vanities, a free standing soaking tub and clear glass shower cubicles. The Altis Blue Lake Community has also been designed to accommodate pets within its local area, offering an indoor cooled, specialized canine spa center where pets can be groomed. In addition, outdoor amenities will also be included to allow residents to bond and play with their pets, such as a multi-purpose trail and a pet park with a gated, off-leash area. Residents of the community will also enjoy the convenience of using an automated, 24/7 package and dry-cleaning pickup station; 696 parking spots, including directly accessible garages; a hobby/craft room; mail kiosk; maintenance building; and garbage enclosure. Phase I of this housing project is expected to be completed in 2023. The co-CEO of Altman Companies, Seth Wise said, the company was excited about having the opportunity to deliver the Altis Blue Lake Community, which will provide workforce and market-rate housing, and also showcase a new standard of luxury, exceptional services, and exclusive amenities, to the Palm Beach region.