The Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) has prioritized the Sedibeng Regional Sewer Sanitation Scheme, which is crucial to resolving concerns affecting the Vaal River System in the Emfuleni local municipality and is part of the immediate scope of works that will be conducted by Rand Water. In a series of responses to parliamentary questions, water and Sanitation Minister Senzo Mchunu explained that Rand Water was appointed as the Vaal River System Intervention Project Implementing Agent in the Emfuleni local municipality for three years in October to restore the water services infrastructure to a functional state. Also Read: Metrorail resumes Operations at Simon’s Town stations in South Africa The DWS has received a detailed execution plan from Rand Water for the Sedibeng water project. According to the Presidential Infrastructure Coordinating Commission Council, the Sedibeng Regional Sewer Sanitation Scheme is part of the Vaal River System Intervention, one of 11 priority projects under Strategic Integrated Projects 19. The intervention is expected to cost R7.6 billion in total, with the DWS transferring R100 million to Rand Water to begin operations in October 2021. A panel of civil engineering contractors was chosen in June 2021, according to Mchunu, and bidding papers for mechanical and electrical engineering services will be distributed in early 2022. As part of the Sedibeng Regional Sewer Sanitation Scheme, which includes the upgrade of Sebokeng, Rietspruit, and Leeuwkuil wastewater treatment works (WWTWs) and the completion of the Meyerton WWTW, ten unblocking and eight bio-solids contractors have been appointed to unblock main sewer lines and clean the WWTWs. Sewage is being diverted away from settlements and towards wastewater treatment plants, resulting in higher inflows into the Sebokeng, Leeuwkuil, and Rietspruit WWTWs. Sebokeng WWTW (50 Ml/day Module 6) was upgraded in December 2020, and the sludge dewatering facility’s final inspection and transfer were completed in August 2021. Until the end of August 2022, the project is under a defects liability period. The remaining little scope for civil works, according to Mchunu, would be awarded to emerging and local service providers.