Developer Downing’s construction arm has commenced enabling works for the £400m mixed-tenure project in Manchester city’s  centre First Street. After the works, the main construction will begin in March on the site at Mancunian Way to develop three new structures rising up to 45 storeys. MPB Structures has obtained the enablement groundworks and RC frames on the scheme with an excess of £30m order value. The Downing’s mixed-use development high rise is designed by SimpsonHaugh architect and will comprise over 2,200 bedrooms all in a mix of accommodation types and price-points, in a range of five-bedroom apartments to private studios. A vast indoor private facility will be created to supplement the living accommodation. In addition, a restaurant, 17,000 sq ft of commercial leisure and retail areas will be created. Read also: Bouygues UK to construct the 71/72 Kingsway development in Swansea.  The Downing’s mixed-use development has been modelled much fitting the community-centric living approach. In support of the Government’s drive to rise the green space numbers within cities. Downing has partnered with environment planner OPEN and landscape architect to construct both extensive private and public gardens, as well as planting of 140 trees in the site. The £400m Downing’s mixed-use development is the latest regeneration in the area, after the student accommodation development, River Street Tower, which completed and opened in September 2020 having 792 beds. George Tyson, the Downing’s project director, stated: “Our goal is to innovate and professionalise the shared living concept, offering affordable, purpose-built living areas around the city-centre locations, like First Street. This offers the tenants peace of mind as well as flexible, hassle-free living at inclusive prices. The plan is to promote a culture of community and fun that is still lacking in the city centre, while offering the residents affordable houses, at the best quality, encompassed by like-minded people.