East Yorkshire offsite construction specialist, Premier Modular has been offered the contract for a huge King’s College Hospital expansion in London. The contract is one of the biggest in healthcare for the East Yorkshire offsite construction specialist in its 65-year history. The £21 million scheme will see a 3,450 sq m new outpatient services structure constructed for the King’s College Hospital. Premier, the main contractor, will be leading a delivery team that also comprises fellow county firm P+HS Architects. The additional four-storey will offer 48 purpose-designed consultation rooms as well as eight procedure rooms for a range of services. It will allow the trust to free up area in the main hospital to help lower waiting times and enhance the patient experience for emergency care services. The award follows Premier’s successful delivery of a £10 million tender for the offsite construction of a 62-bed priority assessment unit at St Peter’s Hospital in Chertsey. Read also: Plans approved for £800m London Acton Gardens New phase.  Divisional director at Premier Modular, Dan Allison, stated: “The use of an offsite solution for this King’s College Hospital scheme will make sure faster delivery and earlier occupation, to the well-being of patient care. “Offsite construction is safer, quieter and cleaner than in-situ construction, which will radically lower disruption during the construction phase to patients, staff and the neighbouring community. This type of construction solution is also much beneficial on restricted hospital sites like this, lowering the amount of plant, materials and vehicle movements to site by tackling as much work as we can in the factory. Flanked by three access roads, potential effect from traditional construction is clear. We are working to a short programme to bring these state-of-the art amenities into use earliest possible this year, to the benefit of patients, assisting with the rising hospital services demand.”  A full construction package for the scheme is being offered, including design, demolition of an existing building on the site, development, groundworks, module installation, offsite manufacture and fitting out.