The development of a 315-unit multifamily Render Covington Apartment will commence later this month in Newton County, Georgia. This multifamily project is the first of its kind to be built in the Covington area for over 15 years and the development was set in motion after the city lifted its temporary ban on new apartment construction in January 2021. It will be developed through a joint venture between CP Capital US and Crescent Communities. The new multifamily Render Covington  will be built on a 19 acre-site along Highway 278, situated between Martin’s Crossing Shopping Center and Henderson Drive. The apartment building will rise up to three stories high and feature several amenities for residents which include a health and fitness facility, a resort-style swimming pool, dog park, a bicycle gear garage and free standing garages. Apartment units will consist of one- bedroom and two-bedroom rentals; at the rate of  $1,200 per month for one-bedroom units and $1,800-$1,900 per month per month for two-bedroom units. All units will be designed with interior finishes such as stainless-steel appliances, stone-surface countertops, and vinyl wood flooring. Also Read US$46 million construction loan acquired for Missouri Wildhorse Village luxury apartments The Render Covington apartment community also provides residents with direct access to the Eastside Trail; a 2.5-mile greenway which will serve in connecting residents to several local restaurants, bars and shops within downtown Covington. According to the developers,  this new property will also provide its residents with access to employment opportunities in the surrounding area, as it is positioned near a wide range of firms which include Takeda, Facebook and Rivian. Marc Beechuk, the Covington Planning and Development Manager mentioned that the project was currently rounding up its site review and moving forward with completing its building review. Once all preliminary preparations are completed, the developers expect to break ground on Render Covington at the later part of this month, with the first units scheduled for delivery in May 2023 and the proposed completion date set for January 2024.