Grover Corlew has received US$78.2 million in construction financing for a new multifamily project in Pompano Beach, Florida, named Mayla Pompano. PNC Bank supplied construction finance for the 355-unit development, which is set to begin ground next month and is expected to be finished in July of next year. It will be a two-building complex with a studio, one-, two-, and three-bedroom floor plans ranging in size from 548 to 1,383 square feet. Bathrooms featuring soaking tubs, frameless shower enclosures, quartz countertops, backlit vanity mirrors, stainless steel appliances, walk-in closets, built-in microwaves, glass cooktops, private balconies, hurricane impact windows, and in-unit washers and dryers will be standard. Also Read: $121.5 M loan secured for the Waterfront Forté Tower in Florida A two-story clubroom, coworking spaces, TV lounge, fitness center, pools with cabanas, outdoor kitchens with seating at both buildings, bicycle storage and repair station,  a pedestrian bridge between buildings, garage parking and interior mailrooms, dog spa, and package rooms will be among the community amenities. On the bottom floor, there will be 60,000 square feet of retail space. Mayla Pompano’s architect is MSA Architects, while the general contractor is Verdex Construction. The Pompano Beach Community Redevelopment Agency collaborated on the project to assure that the site would provide 53 units of worker housing. “At Mayla Residences, we are committed to enhancing the multifamily living experience via refined pleasures, unexpected conveniences, and places with local flavor and flair,” stated partner Anuj Grover. “We’re quite thrilled about Mayla Pompano.” The CRA was heavily involved in getting this project, which comprises 53 units of worker housing, off the ground. Because there are no hallmark projects of this magnitude in the near region, the spin-off effects of residents’ spending will offer an economic boost to the surrounding companies, spawn new developments, increasing demand for more commercial space, and provide extra employment possibilities. “This is what CRAs are all about, and it’s why we got engaged,” said Nguyen Tran, Director of the Pompano Beach Community Redevelopment Agency (CRA).