Minister-in-Charge of the Presidency On January 17, Mondli Gungubele will go to Port Nolloth with a group from Sasol, Infrastructure South Africa, and the Northern Cape province government for a stakeholder engagement aimed at launching a green hydrogen project in Boegoebaai. The meeting and site visit will be crucial in the implementation of the memorandum of agreement signed and announced at the Sustainable Infrastructure Development Symposium South Africa in October 2021. Also Read: Kwekwe to Mvuma electricity transmission line in Zimbabwe gets Chinese funding Green hydrogen was recognized as a major frontier at the Sustainable Infrastructure Development Symposium South Africa in 2021, as a source of future and existing growth and investment prospects for South Africa. Sasol, the Northern Cape provincial government, and the Gauteng provincial government signed three agreements at the Sustainable Infrastructure Development Symposium South Africa 2021, bolstering their green hydrogen objectives, thanks to the Presidency’s cooperation. A memorandum of agreement between the Northern Cape provincial government and Sasol stipulates that, pending a comprehensive feasibility assessment, Sasol will be the anchor developer of the projected Boegoebaai Green Hydrogen Special Economic Zone. Heads of agreement between the Northern Cape provincial government and the Port of Rotterdam, Netherlands, to operate as a demand aggregator for green hydrogen into Europe is also included. Finally, the Gauteng provincial government and Sasol signed a memorandum of agreement for Sasol to establish green hydrogen production facilities in Gauteng in order to decarbonize local industry. Green hydrogen and green hydrogen-based goods, such as ammonia and synthetic jet fuels, are in high demand across the world. This follows governmental and corporate net-zero promises to limit global warming below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. Because of the multi-sectoral consequences of creating green hydrogen, the Presidency serves as a convening and coordinating body for green hydrogen throughout the government.