Royal Palm Companies is set to build a US$4 billion skyscraper in downtown Miami that they claim will be the world’s s first “COVID-19-conscious” residential, hotel, and medical center skyscraper. The foundation construction for the 27-acre Miami Worldcenter project has already begun. Legacy Hotels & Residences at Miami Worldcenter, a 55-story, US$500 million project included in the skyscraper project, will include 310 residences (which can be rented out without restrictions), 219 hotel rooms, and a US$100 million, 120,000-square-foot health and well-being center on the first ten floors. While the initiative had been in the works for quite some time prior to the epidemic, it was primarily aimed at medical tourists, or those visiting  Miami for medical operations. Also Read: St Regis Residences to replace senior housing complex in Miami After the COVID-19 pandemic began, Daniel Kodsi, CEO of Royal Palm Cos., decided to revise the project’s design and incorporate virus-fighting technology. Hospital-grade and ultraviolet disinfecting ventilation systems, water purification systems, and UV-ray disinfection robots are examples of these. Legacy Residences will cater to these types of travelers, as well as other wellness-focused clients, with amenities such as food and beverage service, on-call and on-site physicians and medical staff, a robotic car parking garage, touchless and facial recognition entry systems, ventilators, and voice-activated elevators. Since its commencement in 2015, the Miami Worldcenter project has hired over 15,000 additional construction employees. An extra 2,500 people will be employed as part of the Legacy Project. Approximately one-third of the Legacy construction workers will be unskilled inhabitants of adjacent Miami communities. These employees will receive on-the-job training and will be paid at least 50% more than the state’s minimum pay of US$10 per hour. In exchange, the city will provide tax breaks to the developers. Silverstein Capital Partners, the developer of New York’s World Trade Center complex, is funding the project’s construction with a $340 million construction loan, the state’s first. The financing, together with deposits for the 310 condominiums, will be used to support the project’s development.