Plans have been presented for a 34-storey build-to-rent residential in Manchester city centre. Planning application for the project has been submitted by Select Property Group and the residential development will be located on the corner of Port Street and Great Ancoats Street. The project will transform the less utilised area which is presently used as a surface car park, into a residential community, aiming to make a positive addition to the region. The build-to-rent residential project will create 485 new homes, as well as an extensive public realm and new active frontages along Port Street and Great Ancoats Street. It will play a vital role in linking the Piccadilly Basin and Ancoats neighbourhoods and upgrading the streetscape. Read also: Plans underway for Victoria Riverside tower in Manchester. The development will be operated and managed by Affinity Living, a subsidiary fully owned by Select Property Group, who operate and manage four developments in Manchester. The build-to-rent residential project plan is designed to provide the vision and development principles anticipated by Manchester City Council in the Piccadilly Basin Strategic Regeneration Framework. Proposals have been established in response to extensive consultation for the whole of 2021. The 34-storey build-to-rent residential project is designed by SimpsonHaugh and will comprise a 34-storey tower which is set back into the site, blending with the surrounding heritage developments and neighboring residential properties. An adjacent podium block, which steps up from seven to 11 storeys will offer a frontage to Port Street and Great Ancoats Street which is consistent in height with other buildings surrounding. The residential apartments will be a mix tenure of one, two and three-beds and will come with facilities like large hub areas complete with lounge spaces, co-working areas, cinema rooms and residents’ gym. Subject to planning, construction could commence in summer 2022.Deloitte are tasked as the planning consultant as well as re-form landscape architects and Stephen Levrant Heritage Architecture.