Construction on the CAD$310 million Lions Gate hospital expansion project in Northern Vancouver has officially begun after years of planning, site preparation works, and fundraising. The new six-story structure will be erected on the site of the former North Vancouver General Hospital, formerly known as the Activation Building, which was destroyed in 2017. There will be eight operating rooms, as well as a pre-and post-operative care area with anaesthetic intervention and isolation rooms. The structure will house 108 beds in 84 single rooms, each with an ensuite bathroom. Lions Gate Hospital now contains 254 beds, eight operating rooms, and a variety of diagnostic services and equipment under the control of Vancouver Coastal Health (VCH). Also Read: Contractor selected for Coal Harbour project, Vancouver The modern hospital also serves as the service area hospital for the whole North Shore, as well as the Sea to Sky corridor, the Sunshine Coast, Powell River, Bella Bella and Bella Coola. The provincial government, VCH, and the Lions Gate Hospital Foundation are all contributing to the total cost of the expansion project. The hospital foundation’s CAD$100 million gift is completely the result of its fundraising drive. Paul Myers, a North Shore plumbing businessman and philanthropist who gave CAD$25 million in 2015, inspired the new tower’s name. The project is scheduled to be completed in 2024. “It’s an exciting day for the residents in the region as shovels are being pushed into the ground for the new skyscraper.” People will be able to get high-quality, publicly-funded health care in a cutting-edge facility, which will assist recruit and retain health-care personnel in the Coastal Community of Care as they prepare for any problems that may arise,” said BC Minister of Health Adrian Dix in a statement. Demolition of the Cascade building at Burnaby Hospital began earlier this month in order to prepare the site for the hospital’s CAD$1.4 billion reconstructions. After demolition is completed in March, development on phase one of the new hospital will begin.