Development plans for a new  $38.6 million Triumph Stadium in Maudlin were recently unveiled by Greenville Triumph SC. This project will begin moving forward with the construction phase, after the Greenville County Council Finance Committee concludes on the Project Kick resolution. The committee voted to place the project on hold for some weeks and will later make a decision after getting more details on the project’s financing. Plans for the proposed Triumph Stadium show that it will have a capacity of 8,100 seats and the allotted site for the development is a 6 acre plot of land owned by Triumph; located at Mauldin’s BridgeWay Station, adjacent to Interstate 385.  According to Doug Erwin, the vice chairman and chief brand officer of Triumph SC, the stadium would be multipurpose and serve in hosting a number of other activities besides sports, such as concerts and festivals. Also Read Renovations begin on the Clemson University Memorial Stadium The new Triumph Stadium is intended to become the home-based for the men’s and women’s soccer team of Triumph SC, and it will also accommodate several field sports such as American football, rugby, lacrosse and even ultimate Frisbee. At the moment, negotiations between the city of Mauldin and Greenville County are in progress, to determine the specifics for the public portion of the project’s funding. The Mauldin Mayor, Terry Merritt spoke in favor of the project and mentioned that the city was ready to work together with Greenville County to make this stadium a reality. Merritt described the project as a potential transformative opportunity for the future development of the region. Triumph SC intends to contribute to the project by providing their own land and bringing in million dollars worth of equipment from their temporary field at Legacy Early College. Triumph SC mentioned that their seats and other stadium equipment are worth about $18.25 million of the project’s total cost. If the council approves the Triumph Stadium project, Greenville County would own the stadium and additionally, Triumph SC agreed to maintain the stadium and also make $350,000 lease payments annually, over a 30 year period. Erwin also mentioned that the project wouldn’t need any new taxes and instead hospitality tax revenue could be used in servicing the bonds for construction. Officials of Triumph SC are hopeful that construction will commence by March or April 2022 and the stadium would be fully operational at  the start of the 2023 season. 