Construction has broken ground on the US$21 million Valley Senior Village in downtown Escondido, San Diego. The nonprofit developers San Diego Community Housing Corporation and National Community Renaissance have taken on the project. According to National CORE, it will include 49 studio apartments, 25 of which will be set aside for the homeless, and one manager’s unit. Other apartments will be accessible to those earning 30-60% of the area’s median income. The county has highlighted one aspect of the complex: the projected slate of mental and medical health programs, including case management. It will also contain outdoor meeting areas, on-site laundry facilities, a courtyard, and case management offices. Also Read: US$3 billion San Diego Airport terminal expansion receives approval The project was sponsored in part by the city of Escondido, in part by the county’s Innovative Housing Trust Fund, in part by Hudson Housing private equity tax credits, and in part by the California Department of Housing and Community Development’s No Place Like Home program. At the groundbreaking, the director of Housing and Community Development Services for the San Diego County Health and Human Services Agency, David Estrella, stated that it is critical for the county to protect and provide affordable housing. “Affordable housing combined with supportive services is one of the most important components in protecting the health and safety of North County elders.” We are continuing to bring people in off the street, to help recently homeless seniors maintain stable housing, and to give all senior residents the opportunity to thrive as they age in place, thanks to innovative programs like the county of San Diego Innovative Housing Trust Fund and No Place Like Home,” he said. “As a long-time Escondido resident, I understand how critical it is for our city to provide affordable housing alternatives, particularly for seniors who are mostly on fixed incomes,” stated Escondido Mayor Paul McNamara.