The development process has commenced for the Lewis Ridge Hydropower Storage project in Bell County, Kentucky. A leading U.S. hydropower developer, Rye Development has filed for a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) permit, which would enable the company to operate using a 50-year license. The Lewis Ridge Hydropower Storage project is a $1 billion dollar investment in Bell County, which will be developed at the site of a former coal strip mine in an active coal mining area, situated adjacent to the Cumberland River. According to the CEO of Rye, Paul Jacob, the project is intended to kick start the economic activity in such energy communities and replace coal as a source of energy production, since it has already been phased out of the grid. Also Read Karuma Hydropower plants powerhouse to be overhauled, Uganda Jacob  pointed out that this project was a significant step toward a more renewable energy grid. He also mentioned that Rye Development was committed to delivering on their promise of jobs in the energy transition. Jacob said the company was proud  to bring more developments just like this Lewis Ridge Hydropower Storage project to coal communities in the US. The Lewis Ridge Hydropower Storage project is expected to have the capacity to generate more than 200 MW for 8 hours and ensure electricity storage for a long duration. Lewis Ridge, on completion, would make up for the loss of coal generation and provide a means of generating resources and electricity storage, which can be incorporated with  intermittent renewable energy from wind and solar, which are currently being added to the grid. In addition this development would create upto 2,000 construction jobs over  a three-to five-year time frame, along with several dozen direct and indirect permanent jobs. The Lewis Ridge Hydropower Storage project will also address the challenge of transforming energy generated from wind and sunshine into electricity that can be used round the clock. The design will implement Closed loop Pumped-storage systems which will recycle water within the upper and lower reservoirs of the system; this will then make the hydroelectric turbines turn and produce electricity.