The ongoing Dartmouth Modular Housing Project which was initially estimated at $3.2 million and was expected to be completed last year in November, now has a new delivery date set for mid-march. The Halifax Regional Municipality had approved this housing project, in an urgent response to the growing need for homeless shelters, but unfortunately the project suffered through delays and cost overruns, which have grown its budget to $4.9 million. Located on Alderney Drive near Church Street, the Dartmouth Modular Housing Project  was intended to accommodate 26 people at the Dartmouth site and also create additional housing for 36 people at the Halifax location behind Centennial Pool. According to Councilor Wayen Mason, the delays and budgeting issues that affected the project’s execution, were not caused by lack of effort or planning, but as a result of the COVID pandemic which reduced shelter capacity and worsened the housing crisis. Mason said this had pushed them to respond quickly and rush through the process. Also Read Ground breaking of the Way Station Housing Project in Birmingham Despite the setbacks encountered during the construction phase of the Dartmouth Modular Housing Project, Mason said the project was still worth celebrating. He pointed out that so far, they had been able to bring 24 units to the Municipality which were not in existence before now and also create a semi-permanent home for the Out of the Cold Community in just four months. The Executive director of Out of the Cold, Michelle Malette mentioned that the occupancy permits for the new emergency Dartmouth Modular Housing Units built by the municipality would be arriving soon.  Malette said that 24 bedroom units were now ready for use, but two other accessible units and the kitchen unit are still under construction and she said they would be completed by February. Malette stated that after construction on the Dartmouth Modular Housing Units is completed in February, there will be seven modular units in total, which will accommodate 26 people on the site.  “So it will be 24 people first and two more when the other units are done,” Malette added. Following the completion of the Dartmouth site, the Halifax site will be the next area of focus and it is intended to house 38 people. Construction on this part of the project will begin later in the month and be ready for use by mid-march.