The $243 million Banner Gateway Hospital expansion in Gilbert reached a major milestone recently and is gradually nearing its final stages of completion. The  final beam was added at the top of the five-story hospital building, in a recent topping-out ceremony, to mark its culmination. This new Banner Gateway Hospital expansion is taking place at 1900 N. Higley Road and the project is  intended to add a five-story, 198,000 square foot patient tower to the hospital’s campus; the patient tower, once completed, will add a total of 190 total beds; The  hospital expansion project also covers a three-level expansion of the Diagnostics and Treatment building, located on the west side  of facility, along with a two-level expansion of another existing Diagnostics and Treatment building located on the east side of campus.The east side D&T building expansion will span  across 112,000-square-feet, comprising of spaces for  administrative function, expanded Surgery Department support spaces, and a remodeled entrance to the emergency department and the waiting lobby. Also Read Expansion of the Shepherd Center Housing Facility in Atlanta The final phase of the construction will feature two new surface parking lots; one of the parking lots will  be built  west of the new tower, while the other will be located on a vacant lot south of Banner Gateway Drive. Both parking lots together will make up approximately  492 parking spaces, which will  be used by visitors and staff. Other renovation work totaling about 40,000 square feet within the medical center will also be done. The Hospital’s CEO,  Lamont Yoder was quite pleased with the progress of the Banner Gateway Hospital expansion project. Yoder commended the general contractor McCarthy Building Cos. for their commitment towards delivering the project  on time and on budget. McCarthy began construction work on this project in February 2021 and it was scheduled for completion by the first quarter of 2023, with all renovation work to be rounded up in 2024. Other companies involved in this project include Dibble Engineering, handling the civil engineering aspect; PK Associates in charge of structural engineering and Detroit-based SmithGroup, as the project’s architect.