Construction on the 200 MW Riverstart Solar Park in Randolph County, Indiana, has been completed. The solar project was overseen by EDP Renewables, which has promised a US$54 million grant to nearby landowners. The Riverstart Solar Park is a US$180 million capital investment with a 20-year purchase power agreement (PPA) with Hoosier Energy, which will use the energy generated by the solar park to serve areas in central and southern Indiana as well as southeastern Illinois. The Riverstart project is the state’s largest solar farm in terms of capacity, and it will be able to cover the annual consumption demands of more than 36,000 families. Also Read: New Hilton hotel opened on Indianapolis Canal Walk, Indiana An 80 percent stake in Riverstart Solar Park was sold to Connor, Clark & Lunn Infrastructure (CC&L Infrastructure) and its investment partner, Desjardins Group, at the end of last year. CC&L Infrastructure and its investment partner, Desjardins Group, will own and operate Riverstart Solar Park alongside EDP Renewables North America. Randolph County has gained 700 employment as a result of the park’s development. In March of last year, EDP Renewables North America announced a deal with NIPSCO for the development and construction of the DPR Indiana Crossroads Solar Park, likewise of 200 MW capacity and situated in Indiana, which would begin operations this year. “EDP Renewables is committed to becoming a leader in clean energy advancement, and the completion of Riverstart Solar Park is another step in that direction.” “Riverstart moves Indiana closer to a sustainable energy future,” stated Sandhya Ganapathy, CEO of EDPR NA. “With this agreement, we continue to diversify Hoosier Energy’s resource portfolio, including a greater amount of renewable sources.” “Riverstart Solar Park will provide an affordable supply of renewable energy for the next two decades and is a perfect fit for our members’ long-term requirements,” said Donna Walker, president and CEO of Hoosier Energy.