The 12th China Prefab House, Modular Building, Mobile House & Space Fair (PMMHF 2022)Date: May 10th-12thVenue: China Import & Export Fair ComplexAddress: No. 380, Yuejiang Zhong Road, Guangzhou, ChinaWebsite: http://www.pmmhf.com/ China, a Growing Power in the Prefabricated Construction IndustryWith the supporting of the national government, the prefabricated construction industry is set to be more and more promising.China’s strong push for prefabricated building industry is triggering the trillion yuan market by 2022. Leading homegrown brands are emerging, and international brands are also welcome to tap into the Chinese market. Preview of PMMHF 2022As one of the biggest prefabricated building fair, every year PMMHF displays a most comprehensive industry chain and the cutting-edge products. For the 2022 show, PMMHF will receive 260+ exhibitors on a 32,000 sq.m show floor. Among all concurrent events, Global Prefabricated Building Development Summit 2022 is the most attracting one for its excellent speaker lineup and wonderful speeches. Review of PMMHF 2021The long-anticipated PMMHF has ended on a high note this May 10th Guangzhou, after 3 days’ concentrated display of the Prefabricated industry’s latest results and inventions. Exhibitors were very happy to meet old and new friends again through the rare professional exhibition held in 2021. The presence of new exhibitors, like CIMC Modular, Yahgee Modular, Tiangong, Broad Modular, Jekeen Intelligent, BNBM Group Forest, has injected the show with fresh energy and they think highly of PMMHF. Exhibition ScopeA.House Design and Construction：By structure: color steel house in different structures, modular house, portable shipment container, steel structure house, wooden house, sunhouse, etc.By purpose: prefab villa, office, plant, warehouse, garbage house, greenhouse, pavilion, restaurants, kiosks, pet house, portable restroom, etc.B.House Construction Material and AccessoriesColor steel panel, heat insulation panel, sandwich panel, exterior panel, precast panel, roof sheet, lighting, ventilation facilities, portable door and window, structural steel, steel frame, hardware accessories, and other off-site construction technologies and design, etc.C.Modular house and bathroom modular, kitchen modular, etc. Current ExhibitionThe 14th China (Guangzhou) Int’l Integrated Housing Industry Expo (CIHIE 2022) Guangdong Grandeur International Exhibition GroupContact Person: SarahMobile&What’s App:+86 13539992305Email:winnie0516@hotmail.com;grand.xi@grahw.comWebsite: http://www.pmmhf.com/