Construction on the US$1.8 million Carolina Pregnancy Center facility has broken ground in Spartanburg, South Carolina. It is expected that the new building will be finished and open by January 2023. The facility rents its current location on Metro Drive. For more than a decade, the center has worked toward someday having its own location rather than relying on leasing. The new location was chosen in 2019. More than $1 million has been raised for the project through fundraising initiatives. The new 10,000-square-foot, two-story structure at 7425 Westlake Drive will better serve the neighborhood by allowing additional activities and services to be offered. Also Read: Toyota to construct new US$1.3 billion battery plant in North Carolina Every year, the facility supports around 2,000 families. It also features a store that sells children’s apparel. The present structure at 103 Metro Dr. in Spartanburg is about 6,200 square feet. Jeremy Bishop, chairman of the Carolina Pregnancy Center Board of Directors, stated that various lands were evaluated for the new structure. Before agreeing to buy property, the center investigated upgrading the current facility. The first level of the new structure will be around 8,000 square feet, with approximately 2,000 square feet on the second story. “It will be a much larger space, which we sure did need.” We will have a larger facility and will be able to see more individuals. “Our ultimate aim is to assist families who are experiencing an unintended pregnancy due to several reasons and are unsure what to do to let them know that support is available in the community,” Carolina Pregnancy Center Executive Director Alexia Newman told The Post and Courier. “It’s been a long time coming.” We will have our own place, which we will not lease, and will establish permanent roots in the area to stay for decades and beyond. Over the years, it’s been a thorough and intentional approach. “We’re eager to break ground and get things rolling,” Bishop added.