The Belt Line Road mixed-use project in Far North Dallas, Texas, has officially commenced construction. The goal of the project is to add new retail and commercial buildings to the region. Triten Real Estate is redeveloping the site, which will comprise 135,000 square feet of office space and 81,500 square feet of retail space facing Belt Line Road, immediately east of the Dallas North Tollway. A new central park and the green area will link the structures. The Prestonwood Country Club land on the west side comprises some existing retail facilities as well as two three-story office buildings with views of the golf course. Also Read: Starship Orbital Launch Pad project in Starbase, Texas. The project is being developed by Triten Real Estate Partners in collaboration with Catlyn Capital. The development at 5494 Belt Line Road was designed by O’Brien Architects, SMR Landscape Architects, and Studio DWG. A 30,000-square-foot urban park will connect 20,000 square feet of new eateries and bars to the offices. The commercial center’s current tenants include the eateries Mesero and Crisp & Green, MyEyeDr, and the indie movie theater EVO Cinemas. Venture Commercial Real Estate’s Amy Pjetrovic and Amanda Welles will handle retail leasing, while Holt Lunsford Commercial’s Holden Lunsford and Dan Pond will handle office leasing. “Our objective is to create a better connection to place, community, and the environment around us via well-planned architecture,” Scott Arnoldy, founder of Triten Real Estate Partners, said in a statement. “Our ambition for Work/Shop, beginning with the name, is to provide a curated community experience for tenants and visitors in the center of Dallas through outdoor green space, golf course vistas, walkable shops, structured parking, and a high-end theater experience.” “Our goal for a feeling of community and neighborhood vibe will provide a one-of-a-kind experience for renters, adjacent households, and families looking for a safe and appealing daytime and nighttime venue,” said John Hardaway, Dallas partner at Triten Real Estate Partners.