Boiler servicing is needed in order to have a Gas Safe certification, which is a legal requirement if you intend on letting a property anywhere in Scotland or England. With that being said, regular servicing is also a great idea for your own home as it will ensure that your heating runs more efficiently. Regularly serviced boilers will both last longer and perform better, using less energy to produce heat for the home, so servicing is a relatively small investment that can save large amounts. Many British homes need boiler servicing, and with proper maintenance from a skilled engineer, you will be able to get more out of your boiler. Like everything, boilers will degrade over time, however, you can prolong that process with regular servicing from skilled and experienced engineers. Sludge build-ups can slow down your boiler, making the process of heating up the home much longer, getting this regularly sorted will benefit you in 2 ways; There is also the risk of a miniscule fault which you may not notice which can develop over time and become dangerous or may break your boiler entirely. A skilled engineer would be able to pick up on any potential faults and sort them before they get a chance to do any significant damage to your boiler. If you have not had a boiler service in the last 12 months then your boiler will need to be serviced. Even if things seem to be running smoothly and efficiently, it’s always worth ensuring that your boiler is safe. Often faults can be so small that they go unnoticed which is why you need the trained eye of a Gas Safe engineer. If you are going to have your boiler serviced, you should call your local boiler servicing company which should be able to provide all the necessary information about your boiler, like condition, if it needs to be repaired, serviced, or simply if it needs to be compeletelly replaced due to safety reasons. Not only will they be able to give you a gas safety certification, but they will also have go through all of the required settings to make sure your boiler is properly working as it is specified by the manufacturer guidelines. Gas Safe engineers are also able to service electric boilers if needed, which also require an annual service. Boiler servicing can range between £60 and £90, as always, you are getting what you pay for, have a look at different services available and see what is right based on your budget. As a general rule, it’s always worth getting a quality service from a Gas Safe certified engineer, anything less and you may not be getting a service of sufficient standard.  Yes, boilers servicing is absolutely worth it, it saves you money and offers you peace of mind that your home is safe. Regular servicing will uncover any minor issues that has the potential to develop into dangerous faults. With a more efficient boiler, you will likely make your money back through your annual saving on bills. In the grand scale of things, it’s a small cost for safety and increased efficiency.