Construction of the Westport Properties Self Storage facility in Los Angeles has been completed according to company officials. Westport Properties will sell and operate the 1,182 unit, 157,116-square-foot property at 4800 Valley Boulevard under the US Storage Centers brand. Residents of El Sereno, Ramona Gardens, Lincoln Heights, and Omaha Heights will find the facilities convenient. The cutting-edge building is climate-controlled and has cutting-edge security systems, as well as a meeting area for community organizations. It is also only a few minutes away from California State University, Los Angeles, making it perfect for college students wishing to keep their possessions during the winter and summer breaks. Also Read: Construction completed at Willowbrook/Rosa Parks station in Los Angeles The three-story structure has climate-controlled rooms ranging in size from 25 to 300 square feet. The property is digitally monitored and offers a conference room for community gatherings. The site is a mile from California State University and about 6 miles from downtown Los Angeles. The 2.2-acre plot of land on which the facility was built cost Westport $5.4 million. Westport Properties, which already has a substantial self-storage portfolio in Greater Los Angeles, is eager to expand its presence in the sector due to its low penetration rate, according to Charles Byerly, CEO of Westport Properties, in a prepared statement. “With a dearth of supply and huge user growth, Los Angeles and the Southern California market have been fantastic for us.” “We’re constantly acquiring high-quality assets in key metropolitan statistical areas around the country, and we intend to be quite active in 2022,” said Charles Byerly, CEO of Westport Properties. Westport Properties manages roughly 11 million square feet of self-storage space under the US Storage Centers brand and 638 multifamily apartments, employing around 400 workers nationally as of December 2020. The Company is a fully integrated operator that develops, buys, and manages its portfolio in addition to providing third-party management services.