The city of Jacksonville has issued permits for the construction of a new $6 million UF Health Hybrid Center, which will consist of a free-standing emergency room and urgent care center all under one roof. The announcement was made in the later part of 2021 and this new hybrid center would be the first of its kind in Northeast Florida and the third location in the city. The new health facility along with the other two locations in Jacksonville are being developed through a partnership between the Jacksonville-based UF Health and  Dallas-based Intuitive Health. The 12,490 square  foot UF Health Hybrid Center will be developed on a 1.96 acre-site at 11251 Lamb Tail Lane in Campfield Commons off Baymeadows Road east of Interstate 295. Development plans for the facility will feature seven treatment units, trauma areas, laboratory space and offices. Also included in the development will be CT scan and radiology rooms as well as five fast-track rooms. The UF Health and urgent care care centers will operate a 24 hour emergency room care and will also be open seven days a week. Also Read Construction plans on new IU Health medical complex released, Indiana According to UF Health, an estimated 70% of patients can receive treatment in less expensive urgent care facilities rather than emergency rooms. The  M.D., chairman for the department of emergency medicine in the UF College of Medicine, Steven Godwin, also pointed out that this new UF Health Hybrid Center would have a huge impact on the future of emergency care delivery. Godwin said that the goal of this hybrid health facility was to ensure that patients got the care they needed through the most efficient and affordable means possible. Batson-Cook Co. has been tapped to be the contractor in charge of the  new UF Health hybrid center at Campfield Commons. The other two locations in Jacksonville are situated at New Kings Road near Dune Avenue and along Lane Avenue south of Interstate 10 respectively.  All three locations are expected to be opened by fall of 2022.