Construction on a new rehabilitation hospital has officially begun as announced by officials from Adolfson and Peterson Construction in Peoria, Arizona, the general contractor, and construction management firm of the project. Reunion Rehabilitation Hospital’s latest project will be a three-story, the custom-built hospital that will sit on 3.71 acres, feature 40 patient beds (20-bed nursing units on each floor), encompassing 49,128 square feet, administrative offices, two high-tech physical therapy gyms, dining, and kitchen spaces, and various back-of-the-house support spaces. The contracting company will also oversee the whole interior build-out, as well as utility services and all site work. Also Read: Construction of an Easton Park Community in Southeast Arizona Callaway Architecture designed the structure. Reunion Rehabilitation Hospital Peoria, which is set to open in the fourth quarter of 2022, will deliver comprehensive inpatient physical-medicine rehabilitation therapy to patients in the area through results-oriented, tailored plans of care. Reunion intends to build a network of inpatient rehabilitation clinics around the country, including this one. ADI is also building a 51,000-square-foot hospital in Phoenix and a 47,000-square-foot hospital in Englewood, Colorado, in addition to the new Peoria facility. “We’re excited to begin work on our second project in the Phoenix metro region with Reunion Rehabilitation Hospitals and ADI.” AP’s previous work on Reunion hospitals in Arizona, Colorado, and Texas allowed us to share best practices during the preconstruction and construction phases to reduce supply chain and labor problems. “We’re thrilled to have a role in delivering an important facility to the Peoria community,” said Robert Cortazzo, regional president for Adolfson and Peterson Southwest. “We are pleased to begin our second project in Arizona with Reunion Rehabilitation Hospitals and ADI.” We are also excited to be working with Adolfson & Peterson Construction again, and we look forward to building on the success of our previous collaboration on the Reunion Phoenix site,” said Mark Daniels, president for Callaway Architecture.