A US$46 million construction loan for the Northmarq “The Flats” luxury apartments in Wildhorse Village, Missouri has been completed. The financing deal for the 266-unit Class A luxury apartment building was executed by David Garfinkel, managing director/senior vice president of the company’s St. Louis-based regional office. The property is in the affluent Chesterfield neighborhood and has easy access to Interstate 64. It is part of Wildhorse Village, an 80-acre mixed-use development that includes apartments, townhouses, office space, and retail. The project is being marketed as Chesterfield’s new “Downtown,” and it is focused on a big lake surrounded by boardwalks, pathways, an amphitheater, a floating garden, public art pieces, and meeting areas such as picnic grounds and terraced plazas. Also Read: Construction to begin on ECH Youth Development Center in Missouri The Flats will include a 405-space parking garage on four stories that will be surrounded by a large resort-style pool and activity deck. A fitness facility with a yoga/cycling room, a dog park, a business center, a dog spa, and bike storage are also available. Oversized balconies, fiber wireless internet, uninterrupted lake views, and high-end finishes such as quartz countertops, tile shower surrounds, stainless steel appliances, and bespoke flooring will be available in the units. TopGolf, St. Luke’s Hospital, Spirit of Saint Louis Airport, Maryville University, Chesterfield Amphitheater, and several parks and recreational activities are all close. When completed, Wildhorse Village, the larger project that includes The Flats, will have 500 apartment apartments spread over two rental communities, 104 condominium dwellings, 72 townhouses, and 35 single-family residences. A million square feet of commercial office, retail, and restaurant space will also be included in the project. A green space with trails and waterfront facilities, a 15-acre lake in the project’s center, a terraced plaza, a boardwalk with seating places, an amphitheater, and a boathouse will be among the property’s features.