Available from Fluid Motion Solutions (part of NOV Inc.) with a host of new features, the Mono EZstrip range of progressing cavity pumps now makes in-situ maintenance easier than ever for wastewater sludge applications. The smooth-profile Positive Torque Split Coupling Rod of the EZstrip pumps already alleviates potential ragging issues to reduce maintenance and assembly times. Designed with Maintain-in-Place, EZstrip pumps also only need a spanner and an Allen key for quick and easy disassembly, de-ragging and servicing. With 360° access to the coupling rod and drive shaft for easy inspection, there is now the benefit of a captive support foot. If required, the full drive-train, including rotor, stator, shaft, rod, and seal can be quickly and safely removed, without physical electrical disconnection. Available in cast iron or stainless-steel with a choice of rotor and stator materials to suit individual applications, the EZstrip range also benefits from a tie-bar-free design. EZstator clamps lock the stator securely into place, not only reducing stator removal time by over 50%, but improving the safety of common maintenance operations. It is a leading worldwide provider of equipment and components used in oil and gas drilling and production operations, oilfield services, and supply chain integration services to the upstream oil and gas industry. The Company’s segments include Wellbore Technologies, Completion & Production Solutions, and Rig Technologies. Wellbore Technologies segment designs, manufactures, rents, and sells a variety of equipment and technologies. It offers a range of services, including portable power generation, premium drill pipe; wired pipe, tubular inspection, repair and coating services and drill bits. Completion & Production Solutions segment designs, manufactures, and services equipment and technologies needed for hydraulic fracture stimulation, including downhole multistage fracturing tools, pressure pumping trucks, blenders, sanders, hydration units, injection units, flowline, and manifolds. Rig Technologies segment manufactures and supports the capital equipment and integrated systems needed to drill oil and gas wells on land and offshore as well as other marine-based markets, including offshore wind vessels. Throughout every region in the world and across every area of drilling and production, their family of companies has provided the technical expertise, advanced equipment, and operational support necessary for success—now and in the future.   