The Springdale City Council recently approved the Tri-County Mall Redevelopment project, which would transform the largest shopping mall in Greater Cincinnati, into one of the largest mixed-use developments to be built on a single site, throughout the history of developments in the area. It will include restaurants, retail spaces, educational facilities, civic space, a mix of apartments, and science and medical spaces, along with up to five office buildings. The $1 billion Tri-County Mall Redevelopment project was able to move forward and received unanimous approval from the council after a developer agreement and a zoning change were reached. The agreement involved a memorandum of understanding for a possible relocation of the Spring Springdale Community Center to this current mall site. Located on a 76 acre plot at the corner of Ohio 757 and Kemper Road, south of Interstate 275, at 11700 Princeton Pike, the Tri-County Mall Redevelopment is meant to be completed in five phases. The first phase  will retain upto 70% of the existing structure for reuse and the buildings developed  would be allowed a maximum height of  ten stories. According to the developers the existing buildings and parking garages are worth about $200 million and they expect the entire five phase project would be completed within the next five to ten years. Also Read Paradise Valley Mall undergoes Redevelopment In Phoenix, Arizona Based on the design plans for phase I of the Tri-County Mall Redevelopment, the development will include 120,000 square feet of retail space and restaurants, 230,000 square feet of Education and recreation space, and 450 multifamily housing apartments. Other amenities to be featured in this phase would include a dog park, walking and cycling trails, and a bioswale and park. More streets will be developed with infrastructures as well and this initial phase is expected to take up to $400 million in investment. The second phase of the Tri-County Mall Redevelopment will feature a hotel, 310 multifamily units and about 300,000 square feet of retail and restaurant space. In the third phase, 460 multifamily units and a grocery store, along with a foodhall spanning up to 70,000 square feet will be built. A science and medical space will also occupy 210,000 square feet. Phase four will focus on the construction of 300 more multifamily units around a portion of the existing parking lot; and finally the phase five will be sectioned into smaller phases, consisting of developments such as 395 multifamily units and 24,000 square feet of commercial space, as well as 200 multifamily units and 18,000 square feet of commercial space. It also includes 14,000 square feet of retail space along with another 19,000 square feet of commercial and restaurant area, plus 9,000-square-foot high-end restaurant space and 200 multifamily units. The companies involved in this Tri-County Mall Redevelopment project include two commercial real estate companies based in Texas, MarketSpace Capital LLC and Park Harbor Capital LLC; THP, as structural engineer; Terracon as Geotech/environmental, Kleingers Group as civil and traffic engineer, while Heapy will serve as mechanical, electrical and plumbing engineers. The design team will include BHDP as the prime architect, Human nature as the landscape architect. TEC studios will handle lighting, Preview Group will oversee code compliance, while ADK will serve as acoustic engineer.