Pattern Energy Group LP and RETA (New Mexico Renewable Energy Transmission Authority) recently announced the completion of their Western Spirit Wind power projects, which have now begun commercial operations. The entire development consists of four wind farms spanning across three counties in New Mexico; these wind farms were built with a capacity of over 1,050 megawatts (MW) and are intended  to supply sufficient electricity to meet the needs of about 365,000 homes. Western Spirit Wind power is centered around four wind power facilities, located in Guadalupe, Lincoln, and Torrance Counties in central New Mexico. The four wind power facilities are all connected by a 155-mile 345 kV transmission line, developed jointly by Pattern Energy and RETA. A total of 377 GE wind turbines were used for the project, with sizes ranging between 2.3 to 2.8 MW and they were built with different tower heights, in order to enhance the wind capture at each facility. Also Read Construction of 250MW Amadeus wind farm in Texas, US in good progress The Western Spirit Wind in New Mexico supplies power through the transmission line to an electric grid, which is run by the Public Service Company of New Mexico (PNM); the owners and operators of the transmission line. According to the CEO of Pattern Energy, Mike Garland, the project created up to 1,100 construction jobs over the course of the 15-month construction phase and subsequently, employment opportunities will be available for over 50 workers  to handle operations and maintenance of the facilities. Other officials also mentioned that the Western Spirit Wind projects would be beneficial to the economic growth of the neighborhood, and are projected to give an expected $3 million each year for the three regions and two school areas within the project’s vicinity. The company also plans to make a $6 billion investment in wind energy and other related infrastructure projects over the next ten years, which will bring in more tax revenue incentives. The Western Spirit Wind project was developed with the goal of providing clean, renewable energy to California and New Mexico and this is to be achieved through long-term electricity supply agreement with the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, San José Clean Energy, East Bay Community Energy, California Choice Energy Authority and member cities, and international energy company Uniper Global Commodities.