The government of UK has revealed their support in funding the planned Britishvolt’s electric-vehicle Gigaplant. The scheme’s private investors have already been confirmed. The government’s Automotive Transformation Fund (ATF), offered an ‘in principle’ offer of funding which has also brought a long-term partnership with Abrdn and Trixtax that will deliver private funding of £1.7bn. Britishvolt announced that it will make a number of follow up announcements over the next few weeks including UK automotive sports car brands relationships and technology releases as well as customer MoUs and R&D collaborations. The executive chairman at Britishvolt, Peter Rolton stated that Britishvolt’s electric-vehicle Gigaplant scheme is a great step in placing the UK at the global energy transition forefront. The facility will also unlock great private sector investment, developing the technology and skills needed for Britain to play a key part in the next industrial revolution. Read also: Joint venture plans Turing Building at International Quarter London, Stratford  The project first full-scale, which will be constructed in Northumberland, is getting support from ATF, delivered by the Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC). The ATF is a programme for funding with a goal of creating zero-emission and a sustainable automotive supply chain in the United Kingdom. Furthermore, BV has revealed Tritax and Abrdn as the partners to fund the scheme’s construction. Shell and core, will also develop the associated supplier park. The development and transformation of the 93-hectare tract is under way by ISG, the Britishvolt’s construction partner. Advanced works began at the site on 6th September 2021, after the planning was approved earlier in the year. The Britishvolt’s electric-vehicle Gigaplant scheme will be constructed in phases so as to keep up with the advancements in technology. By the end of the decade, the facility will have a total capacity of more than 30GWh. The Gigaplant will generate enough battery cells for more than 300,000 electric vehicle battery packs annually when at full capacity, intended for the automotive industry primarily.   