A strategy has been put in place by KwaZulu-Natal to guide growth around the Mkhuze Airport, which is getting a R72 million refurbishment. Premier Sihle Zikalala said the master plan was anticipated to attract vital infrastructure investment in mixed-use complexes on land next to the airport, as well as assist a projected agri-hub in Mkhuze, during a visit to the airport this week. Also Read: Tetouan Sania Ramel Airport in Morocco Set for Expansion According to Zikalala, the province has a Regional Airport Strategy that recognizes nine important regional airports as vital for tourist and freight growth. He said that the success they’ve seen is additional proof of the provincial government’s plan to make the province a top provider of aviation and transportation infrastructure in Africa and throughout the world. Mkhuze Airport, he noted, will supplement King Shaka International Airport by offering chartered flights from Durban and other important cities such as Cape Town, Johannesburg, and the Kruger National Park. Mkhize further stated that the upgrade of Mkhuze Airport is in line with the provincial government’s goal of improving tourism connections in the province, notably in the uMkhanyakude area, which has the most game reserves. Zikalala also hailed Qatar Airways‘ return to Durban after it had withdrawn ahead of the Christmas season due to health and safety concerns relating to Covid-19. Direct connections to mid-hemisphere centres like Doha in the Gulf area bring the globe closer together by allowing quick access to the world’s capitals. Mkhuze Airport, he noted, will supplement King Shaka International Airport by offering chartered flights from Durban and other important cities such as Cape Town, Johannesburg, and the Kruger National Park. Mkhize further stated that the upgrade of Mkhuze Airport is in line with the provincial government’s goal of improving tourism connections in the province, notably in the uMkhanyakude area, which has the most game reserves. Zikalala also hailed Qatar Airways’ return to Durban after it had withdrawn ahead of the Christmas season due to health and safety concerns relating to Covid-19. Direct connections to mid-hemisphere centres like Doha in the Gulf area bring the globe closer together by allowing quick access to the world’s capitals. 