Southern Methodist University (SMU) Athletics has received a $50 million donation from the Gary Weber Foundation to begin its Weber End Zone Project at the Gerald J. Ford Stadium.  SMU acknowledged that this donation was the largest one throughout the department’s history and it would go a long way towards funding the $100 million Weber End Zone complex; which is named after Gary Webber, owner of the foundation and an SMU alumnus. SMU’s Weber End Zone Project will add a new 3-story End Zone complex to the South Side of the Ford stadium, which will also serve in connecting the existing east and west entry gates of the stadium. The 192,500 s.f facility will incorporate SMU’s Collegiate Georgian architectural style and its design will focus on  increasing the functionality, effectiveness and overall experience of Mustang Football. Rhett Lashlee, SMU’s head football coach, welcomed the new development, stating that the new End Zone Complex would have a lasting effect on future generations of student-athletes. Lashlee also mentioned that the facility would  play a huge role in attracting the best future recruits, who would become members of the Mustang family. Also Read Construction on 3 UMaine Sports Fields to begin at the Orono Campus The Weber End Zone Project is intended to house a new SMU Mustang football operations center, consisting of position-specific meeting rooms, a team auditorium, new locker rooms, a weight room, kitchen and training table to accommodate all 484 student-athletes of SMU. Additional spaces will also be provided for video and recruiting services, support staff, as well as the football coaches. Gary Weber said he was honored to assist SMU in building the new End Zone facility, which will support the next generation of student-athletes and fans of Mustang. Weber also said he hopes this will motivate them  to dream big and strive for a new level of excellence. In the past 8 years, SMU has infused more than $125 million into athletic projects alone. The university’s most recent athletic projects include an indoor performance center, named Armstrong Fieldhouse; the Washburne Soccer and Track Stadium, which has an opening date set for this spring; and its latest Weber End Zone Project.