Construction has broken ground on three new mixed-use towers named Cityline Sunnyvale in Sunnyvale, San Jose by STC Venture. Two seven-story structures with about 590,000 square feet of rentable office, retail, flex, and outdoor terrace space will be included in the three new towers. The office section of the building will be LEED Gold certified as well as WiredScore Gold, which rates internet connection and digital infrastructure in commercial premises. The Martin, a 12-story apartment tower with 479 units, including 53 affordable rental flats, is the third structure. The residential building will have a hospitality-level amenity package as well as ground-floor retail and restaurant facilities. Also Read: Groundbreaking at Palmdale Terrace affordable housing, California In addition, the finished three towers will incorporate a public park that will serve as the town square and meeting place for the downtown area. Cityline Sunnyvale’s Phase I includes 198 units along with Washington and McKinley avenues, as well as 85,000 square feet of shops. The flats provide one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartments, with 24 units reserved for low-income residents. Several stores, including AT&T, Comcast, Kid’s Care Dental, and the Salon Republic, opened during Phase I. Flats West, a 75-unit apartment development with one-, two-, and three-bedroom floorplans, is now under construction as part of Phase II. Cityline Sunnyvale will include about 600,000 square feet of retail space, 1,000 residences, and 1 million square feet of commercial space when finished. The project’s purpose is to redevelop Sunnyvale’s central business district into a lively, walkable, mixed-use neighbourhood containing residential, retail, entertainment, and office space. The two office buildings were designed by Gensler, and the residential complex was designed by Heller Marcus. Devcon Construction is in charge of the office section, while Build Group is in charge of the residential component. Phase III of the project is expected to be completed in late 2024. “These 590,000 square feet of additional office and retail space will bring more employment to Sunnyvale’s central area and enhance business for all of the community’s business owners,” says Hunter Properties president Deke Hunter.