Goldenrod Companies will soon commence its groundbreaking for The Van Zandt mixed-use development in Fort Worth. This project, which has been in the works since 2017, is one of the first speculative office developments in the area and it was planned to provide the Fort Worth market with much needed office space. The Van Zandt will be developed at the northwest corner of 2816  West 7th Street and this mixed-use development will feature more of the office spaces, which will span across 99,400 square feet, as well as 147 multi-family units and 11,600 square feet of street-facing retail and dining space. In addition, several amenities will be made available, to provide tenants with a unique urban experience such as an outdoor deck with a fitness center, a pool, meeting areas for both indoors and outdoors, and lounge areas. Also Read The Resurgent mixed-use development coming to East Greensboro The Executive Vice President at Stream Realty Partners Fort Worth, Chris Doggett gave more insights on the project’s origins and he mentioned that the idea for The Van Zandt began as a result of Goldenrod’s recognition of the demand for additional Class A office spaces in Fort Worth. Doggett pointed out that the new development site was also located in a choice area, which would draw the attention of various corporations with an interest in relocating to the DFW market. Doggett  hinted that this project would help remedy the issue of Fort Worth’s growing population which is currently outpacing the number of new office deliveries in the area and also serve in retaining existing and quality talents as well as attracting the best new talents. The Director of Investments at Goldenrod, Brandon Schubert said the company was excited about playing an active role in the Fort Worth community and he also mentioned that the company was committed to making The Van Zandt project into life changing opportunity, which would continue to transform the West 7th District into a unique destination, for residents to live, work, and play. Goldenrod has contracted a national real estate services, development, and investment company, called Stream Realty Partners to handle all the necessary office leasing services for The Van Zandt. Construction on this high-profile mixed-use project is expected to begin sometime in the first quarter of 2022. 