On January 5, Metrorail Western Cape will resumeD service between Fish Hoek and Simon’s Town stations. The Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa announced on January 4 that all 29 stops between the Retreat station and Simon’s Town station will be fully operational. This is to let commuting passengers who will most likely return to work now that the majority of the Covid-19 limitations have been relaxed or eliminated. As a result, local commuters are expected to increase their need for transportation. Also Read: Alexandra Hospice in South Africa Nears Completion According to the Rail Safety Regulator’s directions, Metrorail will operate both yellow and grey trains during peak hours and its new trains during off-peak hours, according to the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa. As more repairs are completed, including the control of sand blowing onto the rails and damaging vital ground equipment, Metrorail will run at a reduced pace. This means that commuters travelling between these stations will have to change their departure times until the rail repairs and maintenance are finished. Additionally, Metrorail will be carrying out additional repairs in the region, which may need temporary closures to address common sand concerns in the area. This may leave some commuters having to change their rail transport preferences during the closures. According to the Rail Safety Regulator’s directions, Metrorail will operate both yellow and grey trains during peak hours and its new trains during off-peak hours, according to the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa. As more repairs are completed, including the control of sand blowing onto the rails and damaging vital ground equipment, Metrorail will run at a reduced pace. Customers will have to change their departure times until the rail repairs and maintenance are finished. Additionally, Metrorail will be carrying out additional repairs in the region, which may need temporary closures to address common sand concerns in the area.