Plans are underway for a $365 million Novelis Recycling Center, which will be built next to an automotive finishing plant owned by Novelis Inc. in Guthrie. The Atlanta based company known as a world leader in aluminum rolling and recycling, intends to grow its closed-loop-recycling programs through this new facility and also attract more automotive customers in North America. The Novelis Recycling Center is being built with the aim of processing aluminum from vehicles that have reached the end of their life span. A closed loop recycling method will be used which retains the leftover aluminum after the automotive parts have been pressed from the sheets. The company intends to become the world’s leading provider of low-carbon, sustainable aluminum solutions through this recycling process; especially since, the aluminum created through recycling only takes about 5% of the  amount of energy needed in making primary aluminum, which eliminates 95% of carbon emissions in relation to aluminum production. The Novelis Recycling Center will be designed with the capacity to produce 240 kilotons of sheet ingot annually. The facility will also feature cutting edge shredding and sorting technology, along with other energy-efficient innovations, meant to enhance the sustainability goals of Novelis, which entails a 10% reduction in energy intensity by 2026. According to the company’s officials, the recycling Center is expected to reduce  carbon emissions at Novelis by over 1 million tons per year. Also Read $43 M Battery Resourcers Recycling Plant coming to Covington Groundbreaking of the new Novelis Recycling Center is planned for early 2022, with its opening date set for 2024. The developers expect that once the facility is fully operational, it would create up to 140 new employment opportunities in Guthrie. The nearby automotive finishing plant already has  about 150 people currently employed at the plant and the company plans to increase the workforce to 190 over the next two years. The Executive vice president and president of Novelis North America, Tom Boney, said the company was looking forward to deepening relationships with community leaders to ensure that the new Novelis Recycling Center provides long-lasting benefits that impact the region.