The Michigan Economic Development Corporation (MEDC), together with Governor Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, have announced the development of three new Detroit housing projects in the largest and most populous city in the U.S. state of Michigan. The projects in question are the Brush 8 Townhomes project in the Brush Park neighborhood, the 1727 Merrick Redevelopment Project in the Woodbridge neighborhood near downtown Detroit, and the 3700 Trumbull Redevelopment Project also in the Woodbridge area. The Brush 8 Townhomes project involves; the construction of a three-story multifamily building with a total of eight for-sale residential townhomes, a rooftop terrace, a penthouse, garden; and alleyway improvements as well as upgrades to public infrastructure such as curbs, gutters, and paving the public alley. Also Read: US$ 120M Jaguars Sports Performance Center to be built in Jacksonville The project is expected to generate a total capital investment of US$ 4.8M, and it will reactivate vacant property into a contextually appropriate building that will provide the much-needed housing in the Brush Park neighborhood. The 1727 Merrick Redevelopment Project on the other hand will include; the construction of three three-story townhome buildings with a total of 23 for-sale townhomes; and public infrastructure improvements including sidewalks, a public pocket park, bike infrastructure, and an onsite underground stormwater management system. The Detroit Housing Project is expected to generate a total capital investment of US$ 7.1 million and transform unused land into a development that will drive economic activity and contribute to the vitality and density of the Woodbridge neighborhood. It will also move tax-reverted Detroit Land Bank property back to productive use that generates a tax base for the community. Lastly, the 3700 Trumbull Redevelopment Project will include; the construction of 65 new, for-sale market-rate townhomes on 11 parcels; and public improvements such as stormwater management features, installation of streetlights, sidewalks, landscaping, and creation of a community commons area connecting Scripps Park and Rose Dog Park that will be accessible to the public. The project is expected to generate a total capital investment of US$ 20.9M, provide needed workforce housing options immediately adjacent to an employment center, and serve as a catalyst for further economic growth in the surrounding commercial district. In support of the Three New Detroit Housing Projects, the Michigan State will be approving local tax capture and a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone tax abatement.