Mayo Clinic has announced the Mayo Clinic Hospitals Expansion Project, which will see the expansion of its hospital facilities in Mankato with a 121-bed medical center, and a replacement tower for the 70-bed hospital in La Crosse Wisconsin. The Mayo Clinic Health System, which operates hospitals and clinics in Minnesota and neighboring states, estimated that the two regional initiatives would cost US$ 353M in total. Construction is slated to begin this spring, with a completion date of 2024. The Mayo Clinic Hospitals Expansion Project is a part of the clinics’ plans for US$ 785M in hospital development projects that will add to the momentum of a decade-long expansion spurt that was just recently disclosed. The Mayo Clinic recently announced plans for a US$ 432M expansion of its medical center in Jacksonville, Florida, which would include five extra floors atop an existing hospital tower. Also Read: Construction on Courtyard by Marriott in St Paul, Minnesota to begin soon The nonprofit American academic medical center has committed more than US$ 1bn in significant development projects since 2016, according to authorities. The clinic claims that consequently in a decade, it will have quadrupled its area with new facilities for patient care, research, teaching, and technology. “Together with our digital strategy, we are consciously updating physical facilities and integrating technology in ways that better enable our personnel to focus on what matters most,” said Mayo Clinics CEO Dr. Gianrico Farrugia. The Mayo Clinics Mankato project contributes to Minnesota’s growing hospital development trend. In December last year, Fairview Health Services, located in Minneapolis, revealed plans to demolish Bethesda Hospital in St. Paul and replace it with a 144-bed hospital for mental and drug misuse patients. Children’s Minnesota also plans to add 22 beds to its St. Paul hospital for an inpatient psychiatric unit. Fairview and Children’s Hospital plans require regulatory clearance. However, Mayo claims that the Mankato expansion does not require approval from state officials since the hospital already has a license for the extra beds.