Three water-housing & transport projects in Djibouti funded by the Saudi Fund for Development (SFD), a Saudi Arabian government agency that provides development assistance to developing countries by financing social and infrastructure projects, have been launched. The projects were launched by Abdoulkader Kamil Mohamed, the Prime Minister of Djibouti, Amina Abdi Aden, the Minister of Cities, Urban Planning, and Housing in Djibouti, and Sultan bin Abdulrahman Al-Marshad, the CEO of the SFD, during the latter’s recent visit to the East African country. The first project entails the construction of approximately 105km of water pipelines and eight water tanks to pump clean water from the Bissidiro region. Upon completion, this project, funded by the SFD to the tune of US$ 10m, will provide clean drinking water to 45,000 people in the coastal province of Obock. Also Read: Japan to Fund New Zanzibar Drinking Water project The second project, launched by H.E. Mrs. Aden and Al-Marshad,  entails the construction of a total of 120-housing units at a cost of US$ 7M  provided by the Saudi government through the SFD. The third and the last project concerns the upgrading of 60 kilometers of the Djibouti-Galafi arterial route that was originally sponsored with US$ 120M by Saudi Arabia through the SFD. The route offers a significant economic and commercial link with its bordering nations. Djibouti’s Prime Minister commended Saudi Arabia and SFD for their commitment to long-term development projects in the East African country and their relationship over the last four decades.  He noted that the investment made a significant contribution to economic development and progress and provided significant social advantages that resulted in improved prosperity and stability. The SFD CEO on the other hand said that Saudi Arabia is pleased with its close connections with Djibouti, adding that the Saudi Fund for Development has a proven track record of supporting sustainable economic and social projects in developing countries.