Little Tokyo Service Center (LTSC) and the City of Los Angeles have received a $30 million grant from the state’s Affordable Housing and Sustainable Communities program for the Crocker Apartments, a new affordable and supportive housing complex in Downtown Los Angeles, the non-profit developer and service provider announced this week. The seven-story structure at 414 S. Crocker Street, set to start ground in 2023, will feature 175 studio, one-, and two-bedroom units affordable for low- and extremely low-income households, above 8,700 square feet of ground-floor retail space and basement parking for 29 automobiles. Residents will also have access to the Downtown Women’s Center’s on-site services. Also Read: Construction of 20 Arches on Sixth Street, Los Angeles to be completed In 2019, LTSC paid US$8.4 million for the Umeya Rice Cake Co. site, nearly two years after the maker of senbei and other confections discontinued operations. The non-profit developer and service provider is also building supportive housing developments in East Hollywood near the Japanese American National Museum and near the Vermont/Santa Monica Station. The Crocker complex, designed by FSY Architects, will feature a V-shaped footprint, allowing for two courtyards at street level. “This AHSC award is a critical piece of the jigsaw for us to begin building next year,” said Debbie Chen, LTSC’s director of real estate. “Creating inexpensive and long-term supportive housing is a tried-and-true means of keeping people off the streets.” “As LTSC works to address the homelessness and housing issue, we are dedicated to cooperating with community members to assist everyone affected by it,” stated LTSC executive director Erich Nakano. “Right present, Los Angeles is suffering from a lack of affordable housing.” “This $30 million award will provide the City with more of what it sorely needs: permanently affordable housing units for individuals living on our streets, particularly in Little Tokyo and Skid Row,” said Los Angeles City Councilmember Kevin De León in a statement.