The construction of a new $17 million JCMG Outpatient Surgery Center on Edgewood Drive, which began almost a year ago is now nearing completion and is scheduled to open by spring this year. Jefferson City Medical Group(JCMG) decided to build a new Outpatient Surgery Center, as its current facility, which has been operational since 1998, couldn’t meet up with the space requirements for an expansion. Jonathan Craighead, the orthopedic surgeon and secretary for the group, gave a tour of the new JCMG Outpatient Surgery Center and he pointed out that the top priority for the building’s design was focused on the patient experience, starting from the main entrance all the way through the entire facility. Craighead showed off the main patient entrance which has a roofed drive-through and drop-off area, extending from the entrance to a waiting area; this shelters patients during unfavorable weather conditions and provides them with a dry place to pass through. He also said the waiting area is quite spacious to ensure that people don’t feel cramped and has been set up with cafe-style tables and spread-out private areas. Also Read US$77m renovation of UCHealth Poudre Valley Hospital begins in Colorado The new JCMG Outpatient Surgery Center is a 28,000-square-foot facility, with a steel, stone and glass exterior design. It also features three bays, which contain four private pre-operative rooms each. Craighead also mentioned that the main idea behind building the pre-operative rooms was to provide enough room for people to feel comfortable. Patients arriving before their scheduled appointment time could wait at the pre-operative rooms, they could also have more privacy to interact with surgical staff before an operation or change into a hospital gown. The new JCMG Outpatient Surgery Center has also been equipped with cutting edge equipment for improved health services. The facility consists of two endoscopy rooms, four operating rooms, anesthesia rooms, and a procedure room. Once the project is set open in spring and the physicians finally relocate to their new center, a large chunk of space will be freed up for JCMG. At the moment the group is still considering their future development plans for the freed up space. Jeffrey Patrick, the Group President, commended Murray Company, the Kansas City construction company in charge of developing the JCMG Outpatient Surgery Center for keeping the project on budget and on schedule. Patrick mentioned that there were still a few details that needed to be resolved before the completion date, such as the changes made to the flooring plans, as a result of supply chain issues. 