Capital A’s engineering unit Asia Digital Engineering (ADE) is set to construct integrated maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) facilities at Malaysia’s Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA). Enveloping an area of over 380,000ft², the facilities will be spread out on 20.25 acres tract in the KLIA Aeronautical Support Zone 1 (ASZ 1) under the Airports’ KLIA Aeropolis development. According to the managing director for Malaysia Airports Dato’ Iskandar Mizal Mahmood, among the targets of the Aeropolis development is to reap Malaysia’s ambition in becoming an aerospace and cargo hub in the region. “Towards this end, the KLIA ASZ 1 is a designated region focused on helping critical aeronautical undertakings and running of airlines and cargo operators. Some of the renowned operators include the Airbus MRO subsidiary, Cainiao Aeropolis eWTP Hub, Sepang Aircraft Engineering as well as the upcoming DHL Express. The local operators comprise of local airlines, cargo terminal operators as well as ground handlers,” explained Mahmood. Work for the MRO facilities at Kuala Lumpur International Airport is expected to commence at the site in mid-2022, with completion forecasted within two years. Upon completion, the utility will have the capacity to offer MRO services for up to 14 commercial aircraft at any moment. Also Read: Gloucestershire Airport’s runway resurfacing to start As part of the project, committed component workshops and a digital product development hub will also be developed. Mahesh Kumar, the ADE CEO  said that in 2021, MRO market in Southeast Asia alone was valued at over US$ 4.5bn and the industry is predicted to rebound swiftly when things get back to the pre-pandemic level, and that ADE is prepared to make a paradigm shift in the sector. “The modern facility will be able to handle both narrow-bodied and wide-bodied planes, and we are prepared to enhance our capabilities beyond the current types of aircraft that we perform maintenance on. We are assured in our overall prospects to disrupt the aircraft maintenance industry in Asean generating jobs as we grow and deliver important economic interests across the value supply chain,” explained Mr. Kumar. In June last year, Malaysia Airports completed the Runway 1 rehabilitation scheme at KLIA.