The development of the Kenneth Kaunda International Conference Centre in Lusaka has thrilled the government. The facility is being built on the same grounds as the Mulungushi International Conference Centre. The complex named for former President Kenneth Kaunda will host the African Union Summit in August of next year. Also Read: Marine Phosphate Project to Progress In Line With Court Ruling The Kenneth Kaunda International Conference Centre’s features include a large auditorium with a seating capacity of 2500, a banquet hall with a seating capacity of 1000, and 15 conference rooms. Tadalisika Zulu, clerk of works at the Department of Public Infrastructure, says the contractor, China Jiangsu International, has guaranteed the government that the project would be completed by April. She stated that the project was presented at an 85% completion point, with all of the necessary equipment on-site. She noted that work at the present is mostly focused on architectural finishing. Foreign affairs and international relations minister Stanley Kakubo said that the Kenneth Kaunda International Conference Centre, when finished, would increase the country’s potential to host more international events while also adding beauty to the country. Mr Kakubo was speaking when he inspected the facility to see how construction work was progressing. In addition, the Minister has told the Contractor, China Aid, that he would work with ZESCO to guarantee that energy is provided as quickly as feasible. This is in response to the Chinese Ambassador to Zambia Li Jie’s request that power is connected to expedite work at the site. Meanwhile, Mr Li stated that China will assist Zambia in its ability to hold international events. The Ambassador has also directed the contractor to improve worker safety on the construction site. Mr Li also stated that the project will be completed in the middle of 2022, just in time for Zambia to host the African Union-AU Summit in August. Ntando Sibanda, General Manager of the Mulungushi International Conference Centre, stated that the centre provides Zambia with the opportunity to divert firms from other areas to be held in Zambia. Mr Sibanda stated that this also provides job prospects because of the available space and capacity.