Two options are available, the KS 120 will cut to a depth of 120 with a double red line laser cutting guide for precise accuracy, the KS 60 cuts to a depth of 60 with a shadow cutting light guide Festool didn’t invent the compound mitre saw, yet with the creation of the Kapex KS 60 and 120 models they certainly can take credit for injecting a huge dose of innovation and technology to this genre of power tools. The Festool Kapex Sliding Compound Mitre Saws have a unique “rail forward” design that includes a pair of large 30mm diameter stationary rails on the front side of the saw. The wide spacing of the rails adds stability and rigidity, and because the Kapex’s head assembly slides, there are no protruding rails behind the saw, allowing you to situate the tool much closer to a wall in your shop than other miter saws of comparable cutting capacity. This feature, combined with the small footprint of 61 x 71 cm and light weight of the magnesium alloy base, make it a space saving tool that is easy to transport. The Kapex KS range are the first variable speed mitre saws, a 1400-3400 rpm variable speed, 1600 watt, 13-amp motor powers the 260 mm 60 tooth carbide-tipped blade. It provides a cutting capacity at 90° of 30 x 9cm, and at 45° the capacity is 20-18/40 x 8-18/40cm. Mitre cuts can be adjusted to the left up to 50° and to the right up to 60°. In addition, a special cutting position allows for cutting 45 mm material up to 10-27/41cm high. The compound tilt mechanism moves smoothly and is perfectly balanced anywhere along the 47° left and right swing. A large twist knob allows you to dial in the compound angle setting with micro-adjustability. The Kapex’s KS 60 LED Light display the cutting edges of the blade, making it easy to see your pencil line beneath the projected shadow. So, if you change your blade your reference is always 100% accurate. The KS 120 has the double red line lasers cutting guide Festool’s Mitre Fast Angle Transfer Tool makes it simple to measure, calculate and cut bisected angles, and it’s included as standard equipment. Used like a bevel square to pick up the work angle, you then lay the tool on the saw, lining up the laser lines to the centre handle of the tool to arrive at the correct bisect angle to cut. And with a vacuum connected, you’ll be amazed at the amount of sawdust captured when cutting. Mitre Saw Stand The Festool offers the MFT/3-Mini work table, which is a smaller version of the standard MFT/3 Multi-Function table designed specifically for the Kapex. It measures 81 x 53cm, stands 79cm high and has folding legs with a floor leveller. The saw mounts to either table using the optional clamping kit. Festool also offers the Kapex UG Mobile Mitre Station for use on the jobsite. It folds easily, includes wheels, and can be used by itself or with left and right extension wings. Experience the Kapex KS 60 innovative features that allow you to measure and cut inside and outside corners without complex calculations which is sure to take productivity to new levels. No other sliding compound miter saw offers so much value and so many great features. Align cuts from the right or left side of the blade quickly. Plus, blade changes are a breeze with the Festool FastFix blade change system.