In a recent announcement by White Lodging, the company said it was ready to resume the conversion of its existing 251-room historic property into The Otis Hotel San Antonio. The property which was formerly known as Marriott Plaza hotel, consists of three 19th century bungalows and the renovation plans for these buildings were initially made public in March 2020. Unfortunately, the project was placed on hold as a result of the pandemic. The redevelopment project for this new Otis Hotel San Antonio, is taking place on a 4.5-acre site at 555 S. Alamo St, which was purchased by the Indiana-based hotel management company, White Lodging and REI Real Estate Services, in August 2019. According to the Chief Executive Officer of White Lodging, Jean-Luc Barone the property is situated at a choice location, surrounded by lush gardens and landscaping. He said the property provides a gateway to vibrant neighborhoods and the River Walk, and also plays a role in  connecting the downtown and Southtown regions. Also Read Plans for Shore House at Hotel del Coronado unveiled, California The three 19th century bungalows on the property are now set to resume the 15 month renovation project, which will transform the old hotel into The Otis Hotel San Antonio, a luxury getaway with modern amenities. Mike Banas, a spokesperson for White Lodging gave more insights on the redevelopment plans. Banas mentioned that the new features added to the property will include a bar, day spa, resort-style pool, and a restaurant featuring cross-cultural cuisine. Two of the historic bungalows on the property, which formerly served as meeting and event spaces will now be converted into a new day spa. While the last historic building will be converted into luxury bungalow-style  suites. Up to 10,000 square feet of indoor meeting space, along with some additional spaces for events will still be available on the property. The event venue will be situated around the urban oasis, making it the perfect location for business events, cocktail receptions, and weddings. Other renovations for the new Otis Hotel San Antonio will cover the guest rooms, balconies, exterior, porte cochere, and lobby areas. Natural materials will also be used for the lobby and public spaces to give guests a feel of the authentic and contemporary San Antonio experience. The opening date for this new luxury hotel  is scheduled for the first half of 2023.