Dump truck manufacturers have to contend with significant requirements from customers in order to be able to rank amongst the top 10 dump truck manufacturers in the world. Years of experience have taught them that in order to stay in the game, they have to adapt to changing trends that demand the use of computer technology in order to improve efficiency, safety and reduce downtime amongst other crucial requirements. Dump truck manufacturers also have to build robust sturdy and long-lasting machinery that can withstand the difficult operating environments found on construction sites. We take a look at the top 10 dump truck manufacturers in the world, brands that are household names in the construction industry, and daily strive to bring new and cutting edge dump trucks into the market.  Started back in 1891, Scania is a world-leading provider of transport solutions, including trucks and buses for heavy transport applications combined with an extensive product-related service offering such as vehicle financing, insurance, and rental services. Headquartered in Södertälje and with manufacturing branches in countries such as France, Netherlands, Argentina, Russia, and many others, the company has a wide range of tippers the latest of them being the XT range. The Scania XT range stands ready to take on the toughest challenges. It can be tailored to withstand challenging surroundings, securing uptime and boosting productivity, in order for you to run a profitable operation. Xuzhou Construction Machinery Group Co., Ltd. (XCMG)  Founded in 1943, XCMG has since then stood at the forefront of the Chinese construction machinery industry and developed into one of the largest construction machinery companies in the world. When it comes to tippers the company has a wide range of the XCMG’s T-series topping the list. Dump trucks under this series are heavy-duty type, composite type, and urban construction muck type multi-configuration. They have been developed mainly to meet the needs of driving on construction sites and urban highways with different load materials such as sands, stones, mineral fines, irons, construction wastes, earthwork transportation, etc.  Volvo Group is a Swedish multinational manufacturing corporation that focuses on fulfilling the demands of the construction industry. Through its subsidiaries, Volvo Construction Equipment and Volvo Trucks the company currently has multiple dump truck models offered in about 200 countries around the globe. The Volvo VHD dump trucks are currently the newest and the most recommended models. “Dump trucks have to be tough If there’s a pile of dirt on the Jobsite, you drive over it. If there’s a pool of water, you drive through it. And you do it day after day. That’s exactly the truck we built the Volvo VHD to be. If you didn’t know better, you’d think it was built out of cast iron with a thousand horses under the hood. It’s that strong, that rugged, and that dependable. In other words, it’s just what you need to get the job done,” says Volvo on their website.  Founded back in 1986, as Hunan Lianyuan Welding Material Factory in Lianyuan, SANY is a leading enterprise of high-end equipment manufacturing industry with over 20 R&D centers and manufacturing bases all over the world. On their dump truck product list, the most recent is the SYZ322C-8S (Ⅴ), with SANY-DEUTZ power engine, Fast transmission, and HanDe axle that constitute the golden power chain, a climbing performance improved by 5% and fuel consumption reduced by 3%.  Caterpillar is the world’s leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines, and diesel-electric locomotives. Since 1925, the company has been driving sustainable progress and helping customers build a better world through innovative products and services. The Cat® 725, which features a world-class cab design, re-engineered using global operator feedback to advance comfort and ease of operation, is the company’s latest in their dump truck catalog. Enhancements include new controls, transmission-protection features, hoist-assist system, advanced automatic traction control system, automatic retarder control, stability-assist machine rollover warning system, and a fuel-saving ECO mode.  Tata Motors Limited is an Indian multinational automotive manufacturing company, headquartered in the city of Mumbai, India, and a part of Tata Group. Using state-of-the-art technology in its world-class manufacturing units the company manufactures durable and fuel-efficient trucks that are suitable for construction projects carried out on a medium-scale. The latest in their dump truck product list is the TATA SIGNA 1918. K equipped with  Tata Turbotronn 5L BS6 compliant engine and the customized drivetrain that achieves higher Power to Weight ratio, higher Torque at the wheel, and superior grade ability. Tata Motors Limited has close to seven decades of automotive excellence and it is a major supplier of construction equipment in India as well as abroad.  Kenworth is an American manufacturer of medium and heavy-duty Class 8 trucks with offices based in Kirkland, Washington, a suburb of Seattle. Kenworth is one of three major truck divisions and brands under the parent company PACCAR, which was established back in 1912 as a car and truck dealership known as Gerlinger Motor Car Works. The company has a wide range of dump trucks, but with the new T880 series, you’ve got a dependable, versatile vehicle capable of performing your toughest jobs. Day in, day out. A truck designed at its core with the strength, stamina, and operating economy you need to move your business ahead.  Established in 1921, Komatsu is arguably one of the oldest companies in the manufacturing and selling business of construction, mining, utility, forestry, and industrial machinery. With a powerful Komatsu EU Stage V engine, the advanced Komatsu Traction Control System, selectable working modes for on-demand performance adjustments, a robust exterior, and state-of-the-art solutions for its suspension and retarder, the HM300-5 is the company’s most sort after dump truck, and a perfect choice for any Jobsite, in any conditions. Komatsu has more than 200 subsidiaries, 81 manufacturing facilities, and 58 sales offices around the world.  Headquartered in Chennai, Ashok Leyland is the flagship of the Hinduja group and the 19th largest manufacturer of trucks in the world thanks to its 9 manufacturing plants and over 74 years of experience in the industry. The most famous of their tippers are the AVTR series that came with a diverse range of options based on load, terrain & application requirements. The company has a footprint that extends across 50 countries served through an all-India sales and service network, supplemented by close to 3000 touchpoints and a global network of over 550 touchpoints.  Isuzu Motors Ltd., trading as Isuzu, is a Japanese company whose principal activity is the production, marketing, and sale of Isuzu commercial vehicles and diesel engines. From the FSR, NPR, NQr, FVR. The company has a wide range of tippers the latest of them being the NMR tri-tipper. This has a special three-way tray, which means it tips backward like a standard tipper and also on both left and right sides, making it handy for jobs in hard-to-reach places. 