Scaffolding accidents are quite common. They are definitely more common than what many believe. This temporary work platform is very dangerous and even a small wrong step can lead to very serious injuries or death. Most people know what a scaffold looks like. We see them around construction sites all the time. And there are several stories about fatal accidents. What many do not understand about them though is that in most situations, they could have been avoided. To better understand scaffolding injuries, we have to first discuss statistics and causes. This is what you should always be aware of. The US BLS (Bureau of Labor Statistics) shows that scaffolding-related accidents actually result in over 4,500 injuries and 60 deaths every single year. Around 25% of the fatal falls are due to falls from scaffolds. According to a medical malpractice attorney Washington DC, employers are losing close to $90 million every single year due to workdays lost. Such statistics should make it quite clear that workplace safety has to be taken seriously. Around three quarters of all the scaffolding accidents happen because of one of three causes: The rest of the scaffolding accidents are caused by: Scaffolds are used by construction workers to reach heights they cannot without them. This is why most such accidents lead to death or serious injuries. The most common injuries you can expect after scaffolding accidents are: As you surely already figured out, construction workers are not the only ones who can end up injured in a scaffolding accident. It is also possible for pedestrians to be killed or seriously hurt if the scaffold collapses. As an example, in 2019 there were 2 pedestrians in New York who were injured because of scaffolding coming loose. Fortunately, just minor injuries appeared. Scaffold safety regulations are published by the OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration). This includes how to use scaffolds, maintain them, and construct them. There are also extra safety standards published by private organizations. Violating the standards can lead to serious problems and is evidence that negligence was present when personal injury cases are filed. The most important thing to do is to get the medical treatment you need since health is always the priority. Also, this gives you medical evidence that you can then use in your future claim if you need it. Fortunately, workers’ compensation usually covers all scaffolding accidents for employees and even for pedestrians. However, you should never expect to automatically receive maximum compensation for what you suffered. The best thing you can do when injured, after you receive treatment, is to contact a personal injury attorney who handled cases like yours in the past.  