Morgan Sindall has been offered the tender to construct Knowsley Council’s big cinema complex in Kirkby town centre in Merseyside. Morgan Sindall Construction will tackle all pre-construction duties, after which the council will offer the company the tender to construct the six-screen cinema off Cherryfield Drive. The cinema will be developed on the site of the former Kirkby Library. It will also include three food and drink outlets. The project is designed by Saunders Architecture + Design. £2.8m for the project has been contributed by Liverpool City Region Combined Authority. Read also: London School of Economics to get a 644-room student’s hostel. The Knowsley Council’s big cinema complex in Kirkby town is the council’s second phase on efforts to revive the town centre. The first phase comprised of construction of 94,000 sq ft of retail, comprising of Home Bargains, Morrisons superstore, KFC and drive-through Taco Bell. “Our Kirkby Town Centre ideas have always exceeded the retail development,” stated Tony Brennan, cabinet member for regeneration and economic development with the council. “We have been attentive to what the residents need for this town and, you can well see with the supermarket and the retail project, we are creating exactly what they wanted. Our main concern now is to construct the cinema project, and the three food and drink hubs, which will not only offer the facilities the residents asked for, but will also provide local jobs for our people,” he added.  The Liverpool’s area director for with Morgan Sindall Construction, Richard Potts, commended the cinema development. He stated, “Knowsley Council is now creating a brilliant regeneration scheme for Kirkby. By building up the town centre, it is laying the groundwork to revive Kirkby a better place to work, live and play for years to come. We’re much delighted to have been selected as the preferred contractor for Knowsley Council’s big cinema complex in Kirkby town, and anticipate to working with the council to help turn its vision a reality.”