Paratus stated in February that it has reached an arrangement with Google to be the landing partner for the Equiano cable in Namibia and the arrangement comprises the building and administration of the Equiano cable landing station Swakopmund. Paratus has already finished the construction and is on schedule with its rapid growth to supply greater capacity on its excellent network to Namibia and the continent. Also Read: Namibia’s Namasira Police to Get Better Infrastructure Last June, the Equiano Cable Landing Station’s exterior was finished. The inside fit was finished in January 2022 and included electricity, cabling cabinets, conduits, raceways, cages, and security. The landing station is currently prepared to receive the cable, which will arrive in the second quarter of 2022. The Paratus contract involved the construction of a structure to house the cable’s termination from the ocean to the landing station, where it is linked to network equipment that lights up the fibre so that it may convey data. The landing station on the cable also serves as a hub for other operators and consumers to gather and distribute capacity. The Equiano cable is scheduled to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2022. Paratus has been substantially investing in infrastructure development to bring better connections and infinite quality networks to the southern African area. According to Andrew Hall, MD of Paratus Namibia, the cable delivers a staggering 20 times greater network capacity than the old connection. It also, crucially, provides an alternate service to Namibia and the rest of SADC, improving redundancy and ensuring network stability and uptime. Hall stated that this was wonderful news for both enterprises and consumers in the area and that it is only one intervention in the wider expansion plan to bring superior connection services to Africa, therefore unlocking the potential of organizations and individuals on the continent. Paratus is a prominent pan-African full-service network operator with operations in six SADC nations. The company’s expanded network offers a satellite connectivity-focused service in 28 African nations to many client satellite connections across the continent. The Equiano cable, the biggest on the African continent, adds capacity to the Paratus SADC footprint and European network link and supports the operator’s long-term expansion goal.