CapRock Partners has finally begun Phase I of the West 202 Logistics speculative Industrial Project in Phoenix, which it announced last September. This new industrial complex will be the company’s fourth project in the Valley and the first one to be developed along the recently completed Loop 202 South Mountain Freeway. At full build-out, this project will be the largest industrial development in the history of Phoenix; and according to CapRock, it will help meet the demand for modern industrial spaces in central Phoenix, and also provide more accessibility and efficiency for businesses in the region. At the groundbreaking of West 202 Logistics, Phoenix Mayor Kate Gallego mentioned that being able to attract the largest industrial campus in Phoenix’s history, was a statement of confidence in the city’s future. Gallego said the city prioritizes investments in infrastructure that attract projects just like CapRock’s industrial complex and  these economic developments make Phoenix a choice destination for people to live and do business. The Senior vice president of CapRock Partners, Nicholas Ilagan also spoke on the company’s commitment to  supporting the Valley’s remarkable expansion. Ilagan said the company would invest heavily in Phoenix and work towards positioning the city as an essential link in the U.S supply chain. Also Read Proposed Goodyear Airpark Industrial Facility to be developed in Arizona The two-phased West 202 Logistics project will be developed as a 183 acre industrial complex located at the NE corner of North 59th Avenue and West Van Buren Street within the southeastern section of the I-10 Freeway and Loop 202. The first phase will be a 140 acre industrial development, consisting of 2.5 million square feet of modern industrial warehouse space; this site will feature five Class A buildings with clear heights between the ranges of 36 feet and 40 feet. Construction on Phase I is expected to be completed by the first quarter of 2023. The second phase will be a 43 acre industrial development, featuring 3 additional buildings which will span over 827,330 square feet in total. The development team working on  this project includes Kimley-Horn, serving as the civil engineer, Willmeng Construction as general contractor and CCA Architects.