Glencar Construction, a contractor specializing in the creation of high-quality turnkey facilities has been awarded a tender to build a new 456,736 sq ft speculative big-box logistics unit dubbed Crewe 460, at a prime development site located in Basford West, Crewe. Managed by the specialist developer of UK logistics and industrial properties PLP, the scheme includes PLP’s final phase of development on the prime employment park with construction work anticipated to begin soon, completing in December this year. The project becomes Glencar’s third for PLP, after successful completion of the initial phase at Crewe in 2020 and another project at Ellesmere Port. Crewe 460 is being built to be a high-class warehouse and logistics amenity comprising of 15M clear internal height, 72M deep service yard, external offices on three storeys of more than 30,000 sq ft as well as a car park, separately accessed with 442 spaces. Read also: Plans for construction of up to 14 nuclear reactors in France underway In conjunction with all PLP speculatively developed projects, Crewe 460 will be built correspondingly with the UK Green Building Council Carbon Net-Zero level. The design has been developed to reduce embodied carbon while building. It also constitutes a number of measures to help the end occupier to transition well and affordably to carbon net-zero operation as well as air source heating, solar photovoltaics, cooling, LED lighting, and electric car charging points. Additionally, the project is designed for the occupier’s future flexibility such as a strengthened roof to allow full coverage of solar photovoltaics and underground infrastructure to enable 100% of all car and HGV parking areas installed with electric charging points. Peter Goodman, the Managing Director for Midlands and North at Glencar stated: “We place much attention on long-term customer relationships, and we are happy again to be partnering with the PLP team to create this high-quality big box project. Our earlier Manchester office opened recently is now working on a growing number of schemes in the North West and we progress to capitalize on the opportunities being brought by the leveling up agenda and the advancement of the Northern Powerhouse.”