Designing and construction of a joint high voltage direct current (HVDC) onshore civil project to link Dogger Bank C and Sofia windfarms is set to commence. Developed by J. Murphy & Sons, the high voltage wires from the two wind farms will run 195km from the North Sea and come ashore close to Redcar on Teesside. Both Dogger Bank C and Sofia wind farms’ converter stations are being constructed on a site close to Lazenby and the developers are partnering along the shared onshore cable route that stretches 7km from where the cables come ashore to the new converter stations. Also Read: Meyer Burger Solar Plant to be developed at Goodyear in Arizona An additional 2km cable of high voltage alternate current (HVAC) will be installed from each of the stations to the current National Grid substation at Lackenby, where the current will join the national grid. Murphy’s contract is to position onshore cable ducts that lead the lines from the landfall site to the HDVC onshore converter stations. The Dogger Bank C and Sofia windfarms HVDC onshore civil project comprise detailed engineering and design for the works, ecological management, civil infrastructure installation and engineering and installation of crossings. The main civils work will commence in March, progressing until the end of 2024. Murphy has devoted themself to working with local colleges to hire local talent and suppliers for resources. Speaking on the project the managing director at Murphy energy division Jon Downs said that they are happy to be selected as the delivery partner for High Voltage Cable for two of the country’s most significant strategic renewable energy schemes. “At Murphy Energy, we are devoted to assisting our customers to speed up the clean energy transformation on our journey to Net Zero and to create 40GW by 2030. The Dogger Bank C and Sofia windfarms HVDC onshore civil project is an important element of this journey and we are happy to be playing such a significant role in their delivery,” concluded the MD.