Kano-Kazaure-Kongwalam road that connects Kano, Jigawa, and the Katsina States in Nigeria is set for dualization after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved the project whose cost is estimated to be close to US$ 277.4M. This was revealed by Babatunde Fashola, the West African country’s Minister of Works and Housing, when he briefed State House correspondents at the end of the recent weekly Council meeting, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari. Fashola said that the Kano-Kazaure-Kongwalam road dualization project is expected to be completed within a period of two years, and it will be financed by Bua International Limited, a leading food, and Infrastructure conglomerate in Nigeria, through the road infrastructure development and refurbishment investment tax credit scheme (the Scheme). Messrs PW Construction Nigeria limited, one of the leading construction contractors of roads, bridges, airports, urban infrastructure, dams, and water treatment facilities in Nigeria, where Bua International is a shareholder, will carry out the works according to the West African country’s Minister of Works and Housing. Also Read: Ojota-Opebi Link Bridge and Access Roads Construction in Lagos, Flagged Off Also addressing the correspondents on the outcome of the meeting, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, revealed that the Council had approved 3 consultancy services contracts for Port Harcourt-Maiduguri, Kano-Maradi, and Abuja-Warri railway projects. The first contract, whose value is US$ 38.4M is for the supervision of the Abuja-Warri railway project and it was awarded to Xi Engineers Infrastructure Excellence, Yaroson and Partnership Limited, and Core Consulting Engineering Plc. For the supervision of Port Harcourt-Maiduguri, with batch lines to Bonny Deepsea Port and Port Harcourt Industrial Park, and then to Owerri, the contract was awarded to Gary consults SDBHD and Jabu Global Services Limited for a total of US$ 97.5M. Also Read: Lagos Rail Mass Transit: Lagos State acquires 3 new trains for Blue Line The last contract is for the supervision of the Kano-Katsina-Jibia-Maradi railway line and it was awarded to Techniques Engineering and Architecture Marketing Nigeria Limited at US$ 47M. These contracts are valid for a period of 36 months according to Mr. Amaechi.