Ford Motor Company, an American multinational automobile manufacturer headquartered in Dearborn, Michigan, United States, has appointed a contractor to build the proposed Blue Oval SK Battery Park on 1,500 acres piece of land in Glendale, Kentucky. The automaker, which last year announced its plans to bring two massive, environmentally and technologically advanced campuses to Tennessee and Kentucky, appointed Barton Malow Co., one of the 20 largest construction firms in the United States. Barton Malow will work hand in hand with Gray Construction, a family-owned company deeply rooted in engineering, design, construction, smart manufacturing, & equipment manufacturing solutions to deliver the Ford and  SK Innovation developed project. Speaking on the appointment the CEO at Barton Malow, Ryan Maibach said the company is thrilled to have had the opportunity to work with Ford in enhancing America’s shift to electric automobiles adding that Barton Malow will introduce Gray Construction to “leverage their extensive mastery of the local market.” Also Read: Groundbreaking for the $3 billion US Steel Plant in Mississippi county Upon completion expectedly in 2025 and 2026, the US$ 5.8bn facility shall have two EV battery plants with a combined capacity of 86 GWh per year. The batteries will be used in next-generation Ford and Lincoln vehicles. Just as the Ford and SK joint BlueOval City project in Tennessee, the companies are looking for subcontractors and suppliers for the BlueOval SK Battery Park. Ford, Barton Malow, and Gray hosted a subcontractor event in Elizabethtown, on Feb. 17, and will hold more information sessions according to Greg Christensen, Ford’s electric vehicle footprint manufacturing director. Barton Malow also has a page up on its website with contacts for anyone interested in working on the project. “Ford, SK Innovation, Barton Malow, and Gray are all dedicated to hiring multiple local workforces to construct the BlueOval SK Battery Park, and this is the first step to make sure that Kentuckians will be included in creating a modern time of manufacturing for the US,” said Christensen in a statement.