The ribbon-cutting of (John S. Dunn Behavioral Sciences Center) Dunn Behavioral Sciences Center,  a new psychiatric hospital took place recently at 5601 W. Leland Anderson St Texas. This newly opened state psychiatric facility in Houston is expected to begin accepting patients by March; and it was built through the collaborative efforts of the University of Texas Health Science Center, Texas Health and Human Services Commission, and the Texas Medical Center. The US$ 127M funding for the new 253000 square foot Dunn Behavioral Sciences Center was obtained from the 85th Texas Legislative Session about five years ago. In addition, a US$ 25M donation was made by the Dunn Foundation to improve the university’s behavioral health initiatives, address major loopholes in mental health care service and alleviate the strain on the state’s existing facilities.  The hospital will be named John S. Dunn Behavioral Sciences Center in honor of the generous gift received from the Dunn Foundation. Also Read US$77m renovation of UCHealth Poudre Valley Hospital begins in Colorado The new Dunn Behavioral Sciences Center is made up of single and double patient rooms featuring 264 new inpatient beds, increasing the total beds on the UTHealth Houston Behavioral Sciences Campus to 538; which makes it the largest psychiatric hospital in the U.S. The facility will offer individual and group therapy services, educational and life skills training as well as access to medication management. The hospital will also handle multiple patient populations and several levels of treatment. Plans are also being made to open a child-and-adolescent psychiatry unit as well. The rooms of the Dunn Behavioral Sciences Center were developed with large windows for natural light, and noise-reduction systems to lower stress. Group rooms for therapy sessions, art and music therapy, as well as recreation and relaxation, are also featured in each unit. The rooms also have chalkboards installed to enable creative outlets. On the fourth level, a large space with natural light and a Galveston scene mural is provided to offer inpatient and outpatient services to people suffering from treatment-resistant behavioral health disorders. This space has been designed to include a Galveston scene mural and natural lighting.  At another wing of the building, space is also available for teaching and training clinicians, such as doctors, nurses, therapists, and researchers. Vaughan Construction was in charge of building the new Dunn Behavioral Sciences Center, while the architecture, interior design, and landscape architecture were handled by Perkins&Will. The construction showcases support space for staff, student education, and research, as well as a multi-use therapy mall. Walking paths, seating areas, and gardens outside can be accessed from two internal courtyards. Photographs of Greater Houston and Texas landmarks were also added in the form of wall-sized murals and inspirational words about nutrition are shown on the cafeteria walls as well.