Plans are underway for the development of the US$ 120M Jaguars Sports Performance Center, which will be built through a partnership between the Jacksonville Jaguars and the city. Design plans by the lead designer, Rossetti were approved by the Downtown Development Review Board last October; since then the Detroit-based design firm has made 6 building permit applications to the city, with the most recent one being a US$ 5M steel package submitted in January. The Jaguars Sports Performance Center will be built in close proximity to the stadium, and located northwest of 1270 E. Beaver St. Jaguar intends to break ground on this 127,087-square-foot practice facility within the first quarter of this year, along with the US$ 321M Four Season hotel and office building projects by Shad Khan, the team owner of the Iguana Investments Florida LLC development company. Also Read Construction on 3 UMaine Sports Fields to begin at the Orono Campus A tree removal permit was issued recently by the city at the site of the Jaguars Sports Performance Center and based on the designs submitted, steel will be used as the frame for the building. The recent permit applications submitted for the performance center cover foundation and vertical construction aspects of the project; which include US$ 19.4M for the foundation work on the indoor practice facility,  US$ 5.1M for foundation work for the outdoor bleachers, and US$ 3M for foundation work on the performance center building. Although some of the application costs have been duplicated. The Jaguars Sports Performance Center will house an equipment room; team offices; weight training and medical facilities, which will all be relocated from the stadium. The facility’s design also includes an indoor practice field; two outdoor natural-grass fields with up to 2,300 bleacher seats; a team store and some concession space. The city’s portion of the project’s cost will be funded from a US$ 60M loan which was to be acquired by Mayor Lenny Curry’s administration. The administration was approved by the city council to borrow the money last August. The development team working on the Jaguars Sports Performance Center include England-Thims & Miller Inc., serving as the civil engineer; Missouri-based FP&C Consultants, in charge of code monitoring and site safety, in accordance with the plans filed in the steel package permit; Detroit-based Resurget Engineering, handling structural engineering; Texas-based Idibri, as technology and security contractor; Kansas-based Henderson Engineering Inc., as a lighting engineer; and Nebraska-based Food Lines, serving as the facility’s food service provider.