Plans are underway for the implementation of a US$ 177M expansion project at the BestCo pharmaceutical facility in Mooresville Business Park East, which is located in Mooresville, a large town in the southwestern section of Iredell County, North Carolina in the United States of America. Also Read: Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals Facility to be developed in Verona The project includes the addition of a  new 230,000 square foot distribution facility that will be built on a lot adjacent to the already existing 215,000 sqft manufacturing plant owned by BestCo LLC, a leading developer and manufacturer of innovative pharmaceutical dosage forms for the OTC (Over-the-Counter) Drug, Vitamin and Supplement marketplace. On completion of the project, the BestCo Pharmaceutical Facility will have both packaging and production services to the company’s current operations, with an emphasis on its gummy line of products; which consist of a wide range of over-the-counter drugs and supplements in enjoyable forms such as Soft Chews, Lozenges, and SuperGel™. Partners supporting the expansion project include the North Carolina Department of Commerce, North Carolina General Assembly, Economic Development Partnership of North Carolina, Mitchell Community College, North Carolina Community College System, Iredell County, Iredell County Economic Development Corporation, and South-Iredell Community Development Corporation. Partly financed by a Job Development Investment Grant (JDIG), the BestCo pharmaceutical facility expansion project is expected to create up to 394 employment opportunities during its expansion phases. The North Carolina Economic Investment Committee approved a grant from the JDIG earlier this month and based on the agreement terms, BestCo will be reimbursed up to  US$ 2,000,250 in installments over a dozen years. Tim Condron, the President, and CEO of BestCo expressed his gratitude for the support and partnership offered by the Mooresville community and county officials to ensure the success of the BestCo pharmaceutical facility. Condron mentioned that his company has been able to focus on innovative concepts and rapid growth in recent years, along with the addition of two new facilities in Mooresville, in just 2 years. He said BestCo’s progress was all thanks to the continuous support from partners and the company would continue working towards more expansion projects, and also continue investing in Iredell County. The Mayor of Mooresville,  Miles Atkins, spoke in favor of the BestCo expansion project, stating that the company was an outstanding corporate organization in Mooresville for many years. He said that the city was honored to have the company invest locally and provide employment opportunities for the local residents. 