Plans for the construction of Highway 99 Tunnel that will replace Massey Tunnel in Canada’s British Colombia are forging ahead following the award of nine contracts for engineering and technical expertise to assist in the delivery of the former. Read also: Norway to begin bottom-fixed offshore wind project “We are progressing with a new toll-free tunnel to replace the George Massey, and these tenders will assist the ministry’s work as we proceed from development to construction,” the Minister of Transportation and Infrastructure, Rob Fleming said. “The planned tunnel, together with a new Steveston Interchange and Highway 99 improvements, are being designed so that reliability, safety, and connectivity is enhanced while aligning with people’s interests.” The contracts, worth a total of US$ 56.7M, were awarded after the Province of B.C.’s detailed procurement process was made. They include two US$ 15,000,000 Owner’s Engineering Service (Immersed Tube Tunnel), and (Highway and Civil Works) awarded respectively to COWI North America Ltd, and R.F. Binnie and Associates Ltd. US$ 2,100,000 archaeological services and US$ 14,771,000 environmental services awarded to Golder Associates, US$ 725,000 independent environmental monitor for the corridor improvement projects awarded to Sartori Environmental Inc. Others include US$ 322,000 and US$ 202,000 Marine Navigation Advisor contracts awarded to TyPlan Consulting and RAM Engineering Ltd respectively, US$ 4,187,690 Communication and Engagement Services (Highway 99 Tunnel Project/Steveston Interchange Project) awarded to Lucent Quay Consulting Inc., and US$ 4,400,000 Hydrotechnical and River Hydraulics Services awarded to Northwest Hydraulic Consultants Ltd. The next level in the Fraser River Tunnel development is to begin the environmental assessment procedure that incorporates the ongoing engagement with Indigenous groups and stakeholders and arrangements for procurement. In the interim, enhancements to transit and cycling infrastructure on Highway 99 are advancing. The new Steveston Interchange is lined up to commence construction this year. Transportation Investment Corporation is guiding in the delivery of the major developments of the Highway 99 Tunnel Program on behalf of the Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure and will offer the controls, practices, and other oversights crucial for the complex scheme. The Highway 99 Tunnel, the construction cost of which approximately US$ 4.15bn is expected to be completed in 2030, upon which it will help lower travel-time savings in the area for commuters while offering better opportunities for people who walk or cycle.