A US$ 953M investment has been set aside for the implementation of several St David HealthCare projects in Central Texas according to the Austin-based healthcare giant that earlier this month, announced plans to build two hospitals in Austin and one in Leander, along with the region-wide expansion and renovations of its other hospitals in Texas. The two hospitals in question are full-service acute-care hospitals in Leander and Kyle, which will be constructed at a cost of US$ 142.5M and US$ 185M respectively. The healthcare is looking into purchasing land for the proposed 34-bed, 160,000-square-foot Kyle-area hospital. Also Read US$ 785M Mayo Clinic Hospitals Expansion Project Announced The latter, scheduled to open by 2024, is expected to offer extensive medical care cutting across inpatient and outpatient surgery, robotic services, critical care capabilities, maternity, and newborn services, and a 24-hour emergency unit. Located close to a St David medical complex at San Gabriel Parkway, the proposed Leander hospital will be built as a 34-bed, 150,000-square-foot facility featuring services similar to the Kyle-area hospital, including the 24-hour emergency services. It is also expected to open in 2024. As part of the St David HealthCare projects in Central Texas, a third hospital, a $33 million 80-bed behavioral hospital will be constructed in close proximity to the healthcare provider’s North Austin Medical Center. This facility will comprise both indoor and outdoor therapy units, outpatient services, an adolescent area, and a space for 12 more beds in the future. The expansion and renovation component of the St David HealthCare projects include US$ 145.9M two-phase, expansion and renovation of the St. David’s Women’s Center of Texas, at North Austin Medical Center. An estimated 28,325 square feet renovation involving the addition of 30 neonatal intensive care unit beds will be carried out in the first phase. In the second phase, the development plans will cover the addition of 4 C-section operating rooms, 36 labor and delivery beds, 24 antepartum beds, and 32 full-term nursery beds on a 166,369 square-foot space. These renovations will be rounded up by the year 2023. It also includes US$ 43M for the renovation and expansion of the St. David’s Rehabilitation Hospital, along with the expansion of the oncology services and women’s services at the St David’s Medical Center. The rehab center will have an additional floor, creating 20 beds and the restoration of the therapeutic pool. Then the women’s oncology unit will receive a US$ 7.5M renovation, cutting across 23 patient rooms and the construction of 15 post-operative patient rooms. According to David Huffstutler, the CEO of St. David’s HealthCare, this US$ 953M investment marks the single-largest one-time capital investment since the birth of St David. Huffatutler also mentioned that the successful execution of these St David HealthCare projects will create at least 900 jobs, increase hospital capacity and also expand healthcare services throughout the fast-growing region.