Msimbazi delta has a new look with the new Tanzanite bridge crossing over it, being completed and now in use. The whole road project covers a length of 6.2 kilometers. Construction began in 2018 and cost Sh256 billion. South Korean and Tanzanian governments partnered in funding it. The bridge covers 1.03 kilometers over the delta. It now serves as a connection link for Aga Khan hospital with the avenues of Obama, Kenyatta, and Torre. In addition, accessibility between Dar es Salaam City center and the Southern Oyster bay area has improved. Its state-of-the-art design combines the characteristics of a girder bridge with a cable-style. Therefore, that helps in lowering the Tanzanite-Bridge’s weight. With a tonnage capacity of 180, approximately 55,000 vehicles will use the bridge daily. As a result, traffic congestion along the old Selander Bridge will go down by 38%. Moreover, its width of 20.5 meters, with four lanes, creates enough space for vehicles and pedestrians. Later on, the old Selander bridge is expected to be retired soon. Read also Ojota-Opebi Link Bridge and Access Roads Construction in Lagos, Flagged Off Road users on the Tanzanite Bridge are experiencing great changes. For example, the distance between Masaki and the city center has gone down by almost 50%. Several people from far away places like Kigamboni showed up on February 1, the launch date. South Korea’s GS Engineering and Construction Corp built the bridge. Designated pedestrian routes are in place. Consequently, the bridge is friendly to all users. There are no toll fees. Professor Makame Mbarawa issued that statement. The bridge will be open for 24 hours. Most importantly, many Boda Boda drivers have increased earnings. Certainly because of more trips along the bridge due to the shortened time between places. The New Selander Bridge is its other name. In conclusion, the Economic Development Cooperation Fund is increasing its partnership with African countries through projects like The Tanzanite Bridge.