Plans have been announced for the development of a future (Southern Land Company) SLC home community in Texas Hill Country. The Tennessee-based national real estate developer, SLC recently acquired about 70 acres of undeveloped land in Dripping Springs, which will be used for building its high-end luxury 28-home project. Its location will be a scenic secluded area, close to the Treaty Creek Distilling at the end of Silver Creek Road. According to Dan Hutts, the president of SLC Hill Country Region homebuilding group, the homes will be a collection of beautiful, inviting, high-quality homes; and he said the location was well suited for homebuyers seeking a special design in a stunning natural setting. The COO and president of Southern Land, Brian Sewell also gave more insights on the site selection process. Sewell mentioned that the site was chosen to meet the high demand for quality homes in Dripping Springs, which has a thriving culture, plentiful outdoor opportunities, an excellent school district and is in close proximity to Austin. Also Read US$51 million Lumen mixed-use development coming to Bentonville, Arkansas The new SLC home community development will consist of 10 apartment homes built on the 1.5-acre lots and 17 apartment homes on the 2-acre lots, with about nineteen of those lots stretching up to Barton Creek, showcasing expensive bluff, river and Hill Country views. The community will also feature a gathering center accessible by the river, complimenting the beauty of the land as well its natural Hill Country trees and open. Hutts estimated that these homes could have a starting price within the $1.5 million range, after completion. The engineering aspect of the SLC home community project already commenced last January, and Doucet & Associates was the company contracted by SLC to handle it. Infrastructure construction is expected to begin by September 2022 and more information on the project will be made available as it progresses. Sewell also mentioned that collaboration with local firms would likely happen in the future. He said the company always prioritizes combining it’s resources with the local resources of the communities it works in.