Plans are underway for the development of GBT Realty‘s 16-story luxury apartment tower named  Eden House at the Green Hills Shopping District in West Nashville. The new 92-apartment tower is expected to break ground this spring and will be developed on a 0.87-acre site at 2025 Richard Jones Road, which was purchased by GBT two years ago at US$ 4M. According to the developer, this project offers unprecedented ownership opportunities in the heart of Green Hills. The CEO and president of GBT Realty, George Tomlin mentioned that the company was quite proud of the design plans for the Eden House tower, which will have the building’s exterior clad with brick, wood, and glass. The tower will feature a mix of  1,2, and 3-bedroom apartments occupying between 912 square feet to over 2900 square feet, with prices ranging from US$ 700,000 to over US$ 4M. More than 8,000 square feet of retail space will also be provided on the ground level, to improve movement and convenience for residents. Also Read Development of a 49-story Lincoln Tower Apartment in Austin Other amenities to be featured in Eden House will include an outdoor yoga space, golf simulator, pool, fitness center with a steam shower, and a concierge. It will house a 5th level great lawn with breathtaking views of Nashville. More than 8,000 square feet of retail space will be featured on the ground level, to improve movement and convenience for residents, as well as a 260-foot high parking garage with a capacity of 260 spaces. The development team working on the Eden House tower project includes Gresham Smith Partners, the architects that designed the building; LYNE Interiors, who are responsible for the interior design; HDLA Compass Development Marketing Group, who have exclusive listing brokerage on this apartment tower and have already begun accepting reservations, which will subsequently be converted to contracts in early Spring of this year. Nashville-based Reagan-Smith Associates is also a part of the project team in charge of the engineering and land-planning aspect while HDLA will serve as the landscape architect. Construction is expected to be rounded up by early 2023. Maranda Blanton, Project Director for Compass Development Marketing Group appraised Eden House tower, noting that the development will pave the way in Green Hills for an incomparable residential lifestyle, sophistication, and the true luxury of well-appointed amenities.