Buckingham Group Contracting Ltd, a construction company that operates throughout England and Wales is set to begin the construction of the planned Yiewslet & West Drayton leisure center following a groundbreaking ceremony held at the projects site in West Drayton, London. Alos Read: Plans approved for £800m London Acton Gardens New phase. The project will begin this month with the preliminary works which include ground testing, tree surveys, and drilling of boreholes. This will be followed by the demolition of the old building structures in mid-April, and the actual construction works in the summer. The proposed Yiewslet & West Drayton Leisure Centre is designed by Hunters Architects with Buro Happold and QODA Consulting acting as the projects structural engineer, and mechanical $ electrical engineer respectively. Reportedly, the locals were consulted on the idea in September 2019 and their response has been included in the design wherever possible. The Yiewslet & West Drayton Leisure Centre is planned to have a 25m swimming pool, gym and health suite, training pool, climbing wall, splash-zone, youth zone, soft play, a café, and terrace, as well as a rooftop 3G turf football pitch. It is expected to be a significant community facility serving the Yiewsley and West Drayton residents, and it affirms the council’s dedication to offering the residents first-class leisure opportunities and further helping them live healthier and more active lives. Speaking on the project, the Cabinet Member for Families, Education and Wellbeing, Cllr Susan O’Brien,  said that is good news for the community that this vivid new leisure center is now a step further. “We’re happy for Buckingham Group, which has a great track record in providing specialist sports and leisure amenities. I am also sure that the company will lead this scheme brilliantly and offer a first-class amenity that the community deserves, and will no doubt become an actual center for the local community,” concluded the Cabinet Member.