Benin has awarded a new contract to Razel-Bec, a French company to drain rainwater from cities of Cotonou and Bohicon. The organization is expected to build reinforced concrete side gutters, do landscaping, build paved roads and collectors.The subsidiary of the French group Fayat will participate in the Le Programme d’Adaptation des Villes aux Changement Climatiques (PAVICC). Headed by Laurent Fayat, Razel-Bec will carry out their activities in Cotonou at Akpakpa where they will handle road works and sanitation then deal with drainage works in Agla. With more than 180,000 inhabitants, Razel-Bec will make an extension of 10.6km of  storm water collector, construct nine concrete gutters plus landscaping in Bohicon. Also read;Construction of Djougou-Pehunco-Banikoara “Cotton” Road in Benin Razel-Bec is expected to execute its contract to drain rainwater from cities of Cotonou and Bohicon within 18th months and hence the organization is looking forward to provide job opportunities for more than 6,000 people. The Benin government through this move aims to better the lives of people living within the territory keeping in mind the risks associated with the climate change when it comes to urban planning. Also, Benin will see Le Programme d’Adaptation des Villes aux Changement Climatiques  implemented in the city of Sèmè-Kpodji. A pedestrian bridge is under construction that’s meant to open up Comè and the area of Tchonvi with an aim of developing Peri-urban agriculture. The 58-million-euro loan funded project from French Development Agency (FDA) to drain rainwater from cities of Cotonou and Bohicon will benefit 120,000 people, reduce the risks of flooding and facilitate easy movements in the cities and the people’s living environment will be upgraded. Flooding in Cotonou and Bohicon has worsened for the past ten years, for example in the year 2010 nearly 100000 people were left homeless and 43 others perished through floods. The negative impact also destroyed thousands of hectors of agricultural lands while other people were left suffering from malaria.800 cases of cholera were also reported across the country of Benin including death of 7 people.  