A $65 million restoration project for the historic Cobbs Creek Golf Course, along with the addition of a new community and education is expected to commence this spring in Philadelphia. The restoration project is intended to transform the 18 holed golf course, which is over a century old, into a standard golf field that will be used in hosting future PGA Tour events. Mayor Jim Kenney mentioned that the Cobbs Creek Golf Course restoration project was a worthwhile investment in a local treasure and the city would partner with Cobbs Creek Foundation, to ensure that its Olde Course maintains its position as one of the first, best, and most hospitable of golf courses in America. Kenney also said the golf course has served the public since 1916 and the PGA allowed players from every ethnicity, social status, or skill level to play. Also Read Construction set to begin on Topgolf Entertainment Center in Louisville Non-profit Cobbs Creek Foundation raised the funding for the Cobbs Creek Golf Course restoration project. The finances generated will cover the restoration of the main club house and the addition of new public spaces, which include the education and community engagement center, a short course 9-hole course, driving course and restaurant, all scheduled for completion by 2023. According to designers Gil Hanse and Jim Wagner, the 18-hole “championship course capable of hosting PGA Tour events” is set to open in 2024. Curtis Jones Jr, a Council Member whose district is part of the golf course also spoke in favor of the Cobbs Creek Golf Course restoration, stating that it would have a lasting impact on the Overbrook Park community. He pointed out some economic benefits of the project, which include the creation of over 150 employment opportunities, generation of tax revenue for the city through the newly created jobs. The new jobs will consist of 120 golf course support positions and 16 support roles at the community and education center. In addition, the project will also help create a more resilient ecosystem by restoring areas along the Cobbs Creek, which are prone to severe erosion; about 37 acres of wetlands could also be created through the restoration of natural habitats in the surrounding area. 