The Cincinnati-based Rumpke Waste & Recycling company has announced plans to develop in Ohio a US$ 50M Rumpke Resource Recycling Center that will be the company’s fifth-largest and most advanced cutting-edge recycling plant in North America. The announcement was made at the new location, which had in attendance Andrew Rumpke, the Rumpke Waste and Recycling Area President; Ohio Governor Jon Husted; Columbus Mayor Andrew Ginther; Shannon Hardin, the Columbus City Council President; as well as other state and City officials. The president and CEO of COSI Science Center, Frederick Bertley was one of the officials in attendance.  COSI partnered with Rumpke to help develop the interest of  younger audiences in recycling. Bertley mentioned that this new Rumpke Resource Recycling Center was an incredible development because it not only focuses on recycling, which is one of the most important issues impacting our planet and the climate but also involves engaging the community and looking into possible job creation, education, and other relevant experiences. Also Read  $365 M Novelis Recycling Center to be developed in Guthrie The new Rumpke Resource Recycling Center will be developed on a 25 acre site located at Joyce Avenue, on the east side of the City. Other than the recycling facility, the project also entails the development of a research and development (R&D) center, in collaboration with The Ohio State University Sustainability Institute; a creative education center, in partnership with the COSI; and a career and training center, which will assist students in Ohio  to find careers in the waste and recycling industry after they graduate. Expected to be operational by 2024, the 200,000 square foot facility will process 50 tons of recyclable material per hour, which is 20 tons more than what the current facility handles. According to the Rumpke Waste and Recycling Area President, the new Rumpke Resource Recycling Center in Ohio has been designed with the intention of fulfilling the needs of Columbus, Franklin County residents, local governments, including industrial business growth currently taking place in central Ohio. Rumpke also mentioned that the new development is expected to create about 60 new high-tech employment opportunities.