Are you moving into a new house recently constructed or are you moving out in order to do some major renovations to your home and need some tips to have a perfect, wonderful and idyllic time? Moving house without dying while trying is possible and we tell how to do it with our next 5 tips. Imagine that moment when you have thought that it is better to move to another place and house. It might sound terrifying at first but, if you plan it in great detail you won’t end up stressed and tired. Just as you take time to plan the building of your dream home when it comes to moving you should not cut corners. So, what is needed? The first thing to take into consideration is finding a moving company. The best choice is looking at the Internet moving companies in your zone. For example, if you live in Hamburg, do your search by using the words ‘Moving company in Hamburg’. Once you have checked every option, it is time to decide which company is the best to do this move. Services included, price… everything matters, so do not choose the cheaper or the more expensive only for their price. Choose the more reliable and realistic company and offer for you and we are sure that you will guess correctly. One thing that is recommended to do is packing the essentials separately from the rest. That is to say that, under no circumstances, you should not pack all of your possessions in boxes. In this way, if you need something important, you will know exactly where it is, as you will have them next to you. Moving house is the perfect time to revise and check everything that we have stored for years and years. The solution to this problem is easy so prepare yourself and donate, sell or throw away all the possessions that you do not need anymore. Not only are you finally saying goodbye to these objects that you even remember that you have, but also you are saving money. Why? Because in this case, the less is the merrier and some boxes less can mean an important saving in your moving fee. But, if you are incapable of ridding your belongings, there is the possibility of contracting a flat-rate moving fee. In addition to decluttering clothes or objects that are not used for a long time, the latest days before moving are even more complicated. For this reason, it is important that in your planning, you consider every little aspect and one of them is related to food. What you have to do is simple and is to reduce the amount of food you buy so that on moving days, there is no food left in the refrigerator that could spoil during the move. Once you have organized all your stuff, it is time to pack everything. To avoid that moment of terror when you have boxes and boxes and no idea that what is inside of them, it is important to label them. To do that, we recommend you to use a heavy and well-inked marker to write on the box the place where the things inside are going to be placed, and also and with the goal of being more precise, the list of things that every box contains. Easy to do and after the move, easy to read when the boxes are stacked and easy to use when it comes to organizing the new home.