Cairo Monorail Project has awarded a key supply contract to Schindler Group, a Swiss multinational company that manufactures escalators, moving walkways, and elevators worldwide. Reportedly, as part of the contract, Schindler will deliver, install, and maintain a total of 136 elevators and 272 escalators for the two-line monorail rapid transit system that connects the New Administrative City with East Cairo, and 6th of October City with Giza. The former, which are 54 kilometers apart will be connected within 60 minutes, while the latter, 42 kilometers apart will be connected in 42 minutes. Upon completion, Cairo monorail will be the longest driverless monorail system in the world. Speaking on the award Julio Arce, Member of the Schindler Group Executive Committee responsible for Europe South said that Cairo Monorail is the Swiss company’s first public transport project in the North African country, which indicates the company’s growth trajectory in the region. Also Read: Egypt’s Light Rail Transit System to Become Operational in March 2022 “Safety and reliability are our key commitments. With our state-of-the-art equipment we look forward to securing a seamless mobility experience to millions of passengers in the capital of Egypt,” affirmed Arce. In 2021, Schindler announced the delivery and installation of a total of 129 high-rise elevators to six office towers currently under construction in Egypt’s New Administrative Capital. Reported in June 2019 Egypt is set to commence construction of US $3.9bn monorail l transport system that will connect the New Administrative Capital (NAC), now under construction, with other major towns. This is after a contractor, Bombardier Transportation, was awarded the lucrative tender to implement the mega project. Also Read:US $2.3bn approved for construction of coastal railway project in Nigeria The new monorail system will consist of two lines, one which will be 54km to connect East Cairo with the vast New Administrative Capital, and the other to link 6th October City to Giza will be 42km. There would be 11 stations, and the speed of the trains would reach 120km/h. Bombardier Transportation was selected as the preferred bidder to deliver the project in a partnership with two Egyptian firms, Orascom Construction and the Arab Contractors. The preferred consortium will be responsible for operations and maintenance of the monorail system for 15 years, with the option for an additional 15 years. Bombardier‘s facility in Derby, UK, will be used to manufacture the rolling stock as part of the order. The potential value of the build-design contract is US $1.5bn, while a 30-year operation and maintenance deal could be worth about US $1.4bn. Earlier this year China agreed to lend Egypt US $1.2bn for the construction of the 68km electric railway. The loan comprises US $739m at an interest rate of 1.8% for infrastructure, and US $461m with a 2% interest rate for the trains repayable over 15 years, with a five-year grace period. An initial agreement for the loan was signed in September 2018 during the visit of President Abdel Fatah El-Sisi to China. The new railway will also link the 10th of Ramadan City outside Cairo to the new capital, taking in El Salam and other new cities. Construction of the new monorail system in Egypt will not only be beneficial to Cairo’s residents but also Derby because the rolling stock for the system will be built there. Reported in August 2019 The government of Egypt through the National Authority for Tunnels has signed an agreement with a consortium of Orascom Construction and Arab Contractors led by Bombardier, a Canadian manufacturing group, to design and build the country’s two automated monorail systems in a contract valued at US$ 4.5bn. According to the contract, the Canadian manufacturing group will be responsible for the design, manufacture, supply, and installation of electrical and mechanical equipment for the two lines, including 70 four-car Innovia Monorail 300 trains, to a total of 280 cars. Nevertheless, the company will also handle, among other things, automatic train signaling and control technology including fitting an operations control center with communication systems. Also Read: Zambia, Botswana to construct railway across Zambezi On the other hand, Egypts Orascom Construction and Arab Contractors will be in charge of the design and construction of all infrastructure and civil works, including stations, guide way structures and new depot buildings. Upon completion of the project, the consortium will be responsible for the Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of both lines for 30 years. The first monorail line, with 21 stations, will extend 54km from Nasr city, East of Cairo to the New Administrative Capital which is currently under construction in the desert while the second line with 12 stations will be 42 km long connecting 6th October City to Giza. Upon completion, the system running on a single rail will dramatically improve the quality of life for more than 20 million people residing in the Egyptian capital by transporting about 45,000 passengers per-hour in either direction and significantly reducing their daily commuting time. It is projected that with operating speeds of up to 80 km/h, the journey time from east Cairo to the New Administrative Capital will be around 60 minutes while that of 6th October City to Giza will be approximately 42 minutes. Reported in September 2020  Hill International has been awarded a contract to provide project management, design review, and implementation supervision services for the New Administrative Capital City and 6th of October City Monorail project in Egypt. Built by Egypt’s National Authority for Tunnels, the estimated US $4bn project represents the first monorail project in North Africa and, once complete, will be the longest monorail system in the world at a combined 98.5 km. The project’s first line will extend 56.5 km from East Cairo to the New Administrative Capital. The second line will be 42 km long to connect 6th of October City to Giza. These are the first mass transit links to connect Greater Cairo with New Capital City and 6th of October City. With operating speeds up to 80 km/h, the journey time for the new Capital City will be around 60 minutes (for 56.5 km line) and around 42 minutes for 6th of October City (42 km line). Once complete, the two lines will transport approximately 45,000 passengers per hour at peak capacity, greatly improving mobility for Egyptian citizens in a safe and sustainable manner. Also Read: First government headquarters launched in Egypt’s new administrative capital The project will use the design-build-operate-and-maintain (DBOM) delivery method, and includes 34 stations, including both elevated and at-grade locations, and associated works including maintenance facilities, depots, and an Operations Control Centre. The monorail will also intersect with the Cairo Metro’s Line 3 as well as Cairo’s High Speed Rail network, further connecting the dynamic Cairo region. According to Hill International CEO Raouf Ghali, this is an exciting project for all involved, and represents the continuing strength of the North African market in general and Egypt in particular. “With demographic factors, astute planning, and innovation providing an engine for growth in Egypt, we expect the country will set a global standard in executing ambitious infrastructure projects and programs like the Cairo Monorail for many years to come,” he said. Reported in December 2020 The Egyptian Parliament’s Transport and Communications Committee has approved a US $2.2bn loan facilitation agreement between the National Authority for Tunnels and GB Morgan Europe Limited and other financial institutions, for the Cairo Monorail Project in the New Administrative Capital (NAC) and 6th of October city, in Egypt. According to the Undersecretary of the Transport Committee Rizk Ragheb Daiallah, who chaired the meeting, parliament values the monorails project and therefore its implementation should be swift. “Members must have sufficient confidence in how to repay the loan without the state bearing any burdens, taking into account that the Egyptian citizen does not bear any financial burdens,” he said. Daiallah further requested that the committee’s members provide a full feasibility study to work on paying the loan, as well as construction contracts. “Once the study is provided, the parliament will fully approve it. Also Read: Monorail project to be constructed in Egypt’s New Administrative Capital Built by Egypt’s National Authority for Tunnels, the estimated US $4bn project represents the first monorail project in North Africa and, once complete, will be the longest monorail system in the world at a combined 98.5km. The project’s first line will extend 56.5km from East Cairo to the New Administrative Capital. The second line will be 42km long to connect 6th of October City to Giza. These are the first mass transit links to connect Greater Cairo with New Capital City and 6th of October City. With operating speeds up to 80km/h, the journey time for the new Capital City will be around 60 minutes (for 56.5km line) and around 42 minutes for 6th of October City (42km line). Once complete, the two lines will transport approximately 45,000 passengers per hour at peak capacity, greatly improving mobility for Egyptian citizens in a safe and sustainable manner. The project will use the design-build-operate-and-maintain (DBOM) delivery method, and includes 34 stations, including both elevated and at-grade locations, and associated works including maintenance facilities, depots, and an Operations Control Centre. The monorail will also intersect with the Cairo Metro’s Line 3 as well as Cairo’s High Speed Rail network, further connecting the dynamic Cairo region. A joint venture between Bombardier, Orascom, and Arab Contractors was formed last year for the design, construction, and maintenance of the monorails.