The Chicago City Council has authorized Humboldt Park, an affordable housing complex situated at 1203 N. California Avenue for construction. The site, which is now an empty lot, is located in the southeast corner of Humboldt Park, near the junction of N. California Ave and W Division St. Hispanic Housing Development Corporation is in charge of the project. The affordable condominium, designed by Pappageorge Haymes Partners, will rise 9 stories above the street. The 95-foot-tall structure will have 64 affordable flats as well as 2,500 square feet of ground-floor retail space. There will also be parking for 19 automobiles and 49 bikes. Also Read: Plans are underway for the Lincoln Yard South Projects in Chicago The 64 units will include 9 one-bedroom apartments, 15 two-bedroom apartments, and 40 three-bedroom apartments. While all of the units will be considered inexpensive, the developers will cost-average the units. With this plan, 31 units will be targeted at 30% AMI, 18 units at 50% AMI, and 14 units at 60% AMI. Beginning with an IHDA affordable housing project proposal in early 2021, the architects went through several mass analyses before settling on the final design that secures the corner and preserves the street wall. The conventionally fashioned structure has a distinct centre, base, and top, with a turret at the corner serving as a visual anchor. The eastern half of the building’s footprint will be occupied by a terrace on the second level, providing for frontage on W. Division St. The structure will meet sustainability standards by earning the Energy Star, exceeding the energy code by 10%, exceeding the stormwater ordinance by 25%, planting 50-100 percent green roofs, ensuring a 25% reduction in indoor water use, providing EV charging stations, and installing a CTA digital display. All essential permissions have now been obtained from the Plan Commission, the Committee on Zoning, and the full City Council. The IHDA LIHTC financing for the project has been approved, and the developers want to close on the financing package in Spring 2022. The construction is scheduled to begin in the summer of 2022.