Plans for the Teesside International Airport’s £200m business park on the southside are still advancing. The new business park is anticipated to create around 4,400 jobs when fully constructed, comprising of 1.9m sq. ft of logistics, distribution, and industrial buildings, having a great access from the A67. Four modern units constructed along a new through road wrapping a 130,000sq ft forms the first phase of the project. The phases set to follow would see development of plots from one to 200 acres as more businesses are anticipated to be based at the modernised airport. The constructed 1.5km A67 link road, stretching direct to the southside region will help in the creation of a new roundabout near the Wilkinson’s Plant Centre. Project’s construction is to start within weeks, with work commencing on the new road infrastructure.  After its completion, work will start on the business park, which is set to be done by summer. Read also: Contractor named for the SCAPE’s new student accommodation project in Leeds An agreement to take the airport into public ownership by Tees Valley Mayor Ben Houchen has stirred the business park idea, which was suggested over four years ago. The original agreement to purchase the airport and rescue it from closure comprised 817 acres of developable tract, offering the airport huge chances to drive inward investment in the entire site. The Southside land, which runs parallel to the runway with 270 acres, is the largest region prepared for development. Ben Houchen, Tees Valley Mayor stated: “For our airport to prosper we require a tremendous offering for the local businesses as well as attracting companies from different parts of the UK and around the world – bringing investment and good-quality, first class jobs for the Teesside, Hartlepool and Darlington residents. We’ve already seen commitment from the likes of Draken and Willis, currently operating out of our airport, but there’s still so much unexploited potential and this multimillion-pound project will offer even more.  