The construction of a new luxury apartment skyscraper dubbed 1000M and formerly referred to as 1000 South Michigan, at 1000 S Michigan Avenue in South Chicago, officially began when McHugh Concrete completed a nine-hour continuous concrete pour that included roughly 4,000 cubic yards of concrete for the 73-story complex’s mat slab foundation. The 1000M is co-developed by Time Equities, JK Equities, and Oak Capitals, with construction managed by McHugh Construction. This significant construction milestone completes the foundations beneath 1000M’s main tower, which will be one of the city’s tallest residential buildings at 805 feet when completed in 2025. Also Read: Plans are underway for the Lincoln Yard South Projects in Chicago Prior to this event, McHugh Concrete installed 685 tons of steel rebar (roughly the weight of 15 Boeing 737-800 planes), and general contractor McHugh Construction coordinated below-ground preparatory work, such as drilling and socketing caissons to bedrock approximately 87 feet below ground to support the skyscraper’s tower portion, perimeter sheeting, waterproofing, and utility piping. “At every stage, our team worked with the developers and McHugh Construction to bring Helmut and JAHN’s vision for 1000M to reality. We are excited to see 1000M enrich the Michigan Avenue cityscape and take its position on the skyline,” said JAHN managing director Philip Castillo. Upon completion, the 738-unit apartment building will have studios to three-bedroom penthouse suites. A golf simulator room, a cookout area, an outdoor swimming pool with cabanas, and a full-service 73rd-floor bar and lounge with city views will also be included in the development. Furthermore, a 325-car parking garage will be hidden behind the residences so that it is not visible from Grant Park. The late architect Helmut Jahn designed 1000M, which has a highly sculpted shape with an angular cantilevered base topped by crystalline residential levels that broaden as the structure rises. JAHN, Helmut Jahn’s Chicago-based design company, remains the architectural firm of record for 1000M.