Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, Minister of Human Settlements, Water, and Sanitation, recently announced that the government plans to carry out six massive social housing projects in South Africa. Kubayi-Ngubane made the revelation during a discussion on the State of the Nation Address after President Cyril Ramaphosa emphasized infrastructure investment as a stimulant for growth and job creation in his State of the Nation Address. The six social housing developments will be implemented over a period of two years beginning in the fiscal year 2022/23. Five social housing institutions and one additional development agency will be supported through equity and loan funding to enable these projects. Of the six social housing projects in South Africa, one will be developed at Fochville Extension 11 in Gauteng’s West Rand District Municipality. This will have 2 198 residential units 258 of which will be designated as Social Housing Units (SHU). 953 jobs are predicted to be created as a result of this project. Hospital Street in the Amajuba District Municipality of KwaZulu-Natal will host the second project which will have 53 four-story building blocks and a total of 1 056 apartments. This project is estimated to provide 3384 job opportunities. A third project will be situated at Germiston Extension 4 in the Gauteng Metropolitan Municipality of Ekurhuleni. The proposal calls for 201 SHUs to house 601 people. This project is estimated to provide 847 job opportunities. The fourth project, dubbed Kwandokuhle Social Housing Project in Mpumalanga’s Gert Sibande District Municipality entails the construction of 492 SHUs in the Govan Mbeki Local Municipality. This project is estimated to provide a total of 1544 job opportunities while the fifth project, dubbed The Willow Creek Project in Ermelo, Msukaligwa Local Municipality, Gert Sibande District Municipality, Mpumalanga province will create 1 062 jobs. The Willow Creek Project entails the construction of 360 SHUs. Hull Street Phase 1 located in the Francis Baard District Municipality in the Northern Cape is the sixth and last project. It will deliver 600 SHUs in two phases and create 1152 jobs.