The Ohlthaver & List Group and its joint venture partner CMB.TECH unveiled Namibia’s first green hydrogen demo plant, erected in the Erongo area. Construction on the demonstration facility, which will serve as a center for hydrogen applications, is set to begin this year, with the goal of being operational by the end of 2023. The construction is projected to cost around US$ 18M, according to O&L Group executive chairman, Sven Thieme. Thieme said that, based on the outcomes of the demonstration plant, a bigger scale manufacturing plant, maybe employing ammonia as a transport fuel, will follow in a second phase. Cleanergy Namibia, a joint venture between O&L Group and CMB.TECH will develop green hydrogen production initiatives in the nation, including heading the green hydrogen production facility and demonstration hub. CMB.TECH, established in Belgium, constructs, owns, operates, and designs major maritime and industrial hydrogen and ammonia applications. It also provides clients with hydrogen and ammonia fuel, either from its own production or from third-party sources. Thieme stated that the goal is to generate green hydrogen using solar energy and transfer the clean fuel to heavy-duty applications such as vehicles, locomotives, mining equipment, and ships. The O&L Group’s strong local Namibian footprint and expertise in creating renewable energy parks, together with CMB. TECH’s hydrogen and industrial know-how are a potent mix for delivering this one-of-a-kind project. He went on to say that Namibia is a rising hub for the creation of renewable energy, whether through solar, wind, or hydroelectric power, and that this is why the country is well-positioned to investigate the generation of green hydrogen, or hydrogen created using renewable electricity. Also Read: First Waste-To-Hydrogen Plant in Egypt moves closer to reality According to him, the demonstration plant might be the first step in establishing a whole new sector in Namibia and providing vital knowledge transfer to the country. This would give upskilling and job creation while also pushing additional research, including collaboration with the University of Namibia and establishing future off-take prospects in industries such as transportation, mining, heavy machinery, and power production. Alexander Saverys, CEO of CMB.TECH stated in a virtual input at yesterday’s launch that Namibia can manufacture green chemicals such as hydrogen and ammonia on a huge scale and at a cheap cost. He stated that green and economic chemicals are critical components of the energy transition. The aims of Cleanergy Namibia extend beyond the initial production and demonstration unit. Saverys also stated that Cleanergy Namibia will build a much larger green hydrogen and ammonia facility in Namibia at the same time. President Hage Geingob’s economic advisor, James Mnyupe, represented the administration and stated that the country can be at the forefront of green hydrogen development, which will greatly benefit the country. According to Myupe, the initiative represents a genuine potential to transform the face of the economy, which has been struggling for years. Green hydrogen provides a chance for the country to combat excessive energy expenditures while also ensuring energy security. He also stated that the development of the demonstration plant will employ many people, helping to relieve the high unemployment rate.