Buying a new home is an expensive purchase, so it is understandable if you are taking your time to be certain that you are making the right decision. One thing you should be on the lookout for, especially if you are considering buying an already constructed property, is the home construction materials used in the construction process. There is a variety of building materials which are used for different aspects of a home build so it is crucial that you inspect their condition first before you make a purchase. Because you will probably check out multiple houses, informational guides such as Wahi can help you keep track of everything you see and compare details so you can make an informed decision later. If you want to know more about the services this particular guide offers, check out their website wahi.com/ca/en to gather all the information you need. In the meantime, here are five construction materials to look out for when buying your future home. Photo by Francesca Tosolini from Unsplash Bricks are a construction material mainly used to build the foundation and retaining walls of a house. They are best known for their durability and fire resistance as well as their thermal properties to store heat and slowly release it. Their biggest downside is that they can crack over time, especially if you are looking at an older house construction. Not only will this affect the aesthetics of the property, but it may be a potential sign of larger structural damage. So, make sure you look out for any horizontal or vertical cracks as they can be an indication of foundation issues. Wood is another building material that can be used in the construction of walls, ceilings and floors. It is remarkably strong in relation to its weight and provides great insulation from the cold. Unfortunately, despite its various advantages, wood is susceptible to rotting. This is often caused by the combination of water and fungal growth, leading to either of the two types of rot, dry and wet rot, that impact wooden surfaces. Therefore, if you are looking at a house including wood constructions, look out for mushroom-like fungus on the surfaces, musty smell and warped or split wood as those can be signs that wood repairs may be necessary. Steel has a unique combination of properties that make it a great building material in constructing residential properties. It is most commonly used to provide support for houses, but it can also be found in internal fixtures and fittings such as rails and stairs and as a construction material for fences. If you are looking at a house that has a steel fence in the yard, then watch out for signs of corrosion as the material can rust when exposed to outdoor elements. If this isn’t repaired immediately, it can weaken the structure and lead to cracks and broken sections. In home construction materials, concrete is mainly used for the construction of foundations, columns, beams, slabs and other load-bearing elements. It is extremely durable and offers tremendous flexibility with its design as architects can incorporate it in many shapes and custom features into home designs. Unfortunately, if the concrete is mixed with admixtures other than cement, water and aggregate, the chances are the concrete constructions will crack over time. Although this doesn’t pose a serious threat to the overall structural integrity of the house, it may allow potential opening for groundwater and insects. Because of its durability and aesthetically pleasing nature, stone is a quite popular building material found in house constructions. It can be used as flooring, exterior cladding, solid surfaces and walls, but also for the construction of kitchen counters and fireplaces. However, like every other material, stone can also experience some defects such as cracks, patches and color variations. So, if the house you are looking at has a stone kitchen counter, watch out for these issues so you can protect yourself from costly repairs later on.   Although there are many aspects to consider when buying a new house, paying attention to the building materials used in the construction is probably the most important one. Looking out for any signs of cracks, discoloration or bents can really make a difference in your decision when looking for your dream home and even save you from spending too much money on repairs in the future. Therefore, keep our post nearby to learn about the most commonly used home construction materials in residential properties and how you can ensure they are in good condition. 