The city of Albuquerque in New Mexico, a state in the southwestern United States will soon witness the renovation of the Albuquerque International Sunport.  The renovation project is set to improve safety and security infrastructure, and to offer improved retail and dining services of the primary international airport serving the US state of New Mexico, the Albuquerque metropolitan area, as well as the larger Albuquerque–Santa Fe–Las Vegas CSA. According to Mayor Tim Keller, the project which will be focused on the areas that travelers spend the most time to improve the experience of travelers is long overdue and, therefore, needs to be given more priority. The project will be carried out in three phases in collaboration with FBT Architects, a local architectural firm that will organize surveys, and come up with initial concepts, and designs for the project. The first phase will involve moving the Transportation Security Administration(TSA)  checkpoint, equipment, and exit systems to a location towards the Northside of the escalators, where the former Tia Juanita’s restaurant used to be. The current TSA location will be eventually be used for a new food court. This will create greater security and checkpoint efficiency for travelers and TSA agents. Mayor Keller also pointed out that the first phase will also cover the installation of a new conveyor belt system, which is similar to the ones commonly seen in baggage claims. Also Read Groundbreaking for the Airport 85 Business Center in Charlotte Phase II of the Albuquerque International Sunport renovations project will be executed behind the scenes and it will cover the modernization of the Sunport’s fire suppression systems, HVAC, plumbing, mechanical and electrical infrastructure on the ramp and concourse levels. This phase includes completion of the ceiling replacement at the post checkpoint area and the conversion of lighting across the terminal to LED, in a bid to help minimize carbon consumption. The third and final phase of the project involves revamping Sunport’s food, beverage, and retail areas with a new outlook, as well as expanding the dining and retail avenues. The construction phase of the project is scheduled to begin by January 2023 and be concluded in three years. According to city officials funding for the Albuquerque International Sunport renovations project is already available. The revenue was generated through aviation operations grants from the CABQ Department of Aviation and also from federal infrastructure grants. The officials also said that shops and restaurants will remain in business throughout the entire construction period and plans are also in place to minimize the impact of increased travelers during the Balloon Fiesta and holidays.