For the first time, Grupel has carried out a Special Dual Pack Project to support SUDAPET, a company in the oil and gas sector, in Sudan. The 100% Grupel project, called “Dual Pack Power”, has a total of 6 containerized power plants, each with two 100kVA PRP generators designed to operate continuously and synchronously, powering oil exploration sites, in Sudan. Being a Dual Pack, the project is ideal to operate in application contexts where energy needs are variable, adapting to the different levels of consumption that may occur in the same installation at numerous times and phases of its operation. In addition, there are other characteristics that make this project special: The Oil and Gas sector is one of the most demanding and challenging markets in terms of energy consumption, given its robust infrastructure made up of extremely heavy machinery, essential for all the activities and processes inherent to oil exploration. From drilling, completion, to the gathering systems and all the equipment needed for the extraction of hydrocarbons, the power demand in this sector is very high. Generator sets play a crucial role in the operation of these infrastructures, as they guarantee the supply of energy to the on-site facilities to support operations and ensure the continuous operation of the infrastructures, avoiding economic losses. ABOUT GRUPEL Grupel is a Portuguese company, founded in 1976, that produces and sells portable and stationary power generators up to 3500kVA, as well as portable lighting towers. Equipped with components from internationally renowned brands besides our own brand, Grupel products are distinguished by their reliability and resistance. We have the largest production unit of power generators, in Portugal, located in Aveiro – which allows us a great flexibility to produce standard power generators and complex and customized special projects. We have a specialized team that creates solutions tailored to the specific needs of customers around the world, also ensuring quality services at all stages of the life cycle of our products, from design to technical assistance and supply of spare parts. Grupel is a brand distinguished by Portuguese consumers with the Five Stars Award and holds the SME Leader status, in Portugal. It is also internationally recognized, being present in over 70 countries and with an export volume of about 84% of its turnover.  