A large multifamily complex, Lumen, on Walton Boulevard in Bentonville, Arkansas, is being planned by a California real estate development business. The US$51 million facility, has been authorized by city officials. Burrwood Living, situated near Orange Beach, is behind the project. The firm focuses on multifamily, leisure, and office buildings in Midwest secondary areas. The 6.5-acre site is located east of Walton Boulevard and is bounded to the north by Chick-fil-A and to the south by Panda Express. Walton’s footprint stretches east to the northwest corner of Bentonville Cemetery. Burrwood acquired the land during the last 18 months in separate transactions totalling US$2.75 million. Also Read: 135 MW Conway Solar project to be developed in Arkansas Two structures, including a former Acambaro restaurant and a building most recently leased to Enterprise Rent-A-Car, will be demolished as part of the plan. According to Burrwood executives, the 281,684-square-foot Lumen will have retail shops and restaurant space. In addition to a resort pool, plunge spa, dog park, coffee bar, fitness studio, rooftop terraces, fire pits, guarded parking decks, seating enclaves, and bike wash and storage, there are 252 residential units. Burwood’s development director, Art Kennedy, stated that work will begin in the following weeks and that releasing would begin in the spring of 2023. The general contractor is Conco Construction of Wichita, Kan. The project is also being worked on by Chasen Garrett Architects in Fort Smith. “Lumen is the largest construction on downtown’s west side and the most significant project on Walton Boulevard in a long time.” This is the first significant multifamily development in Walton to have a Walton street address. It heralds a revival for Walton Boulevard, in my opinion,” said Paul Esterer, principal and Northwest Arkansas Division president of Moses Tucker Partners in Bentonville. “This project was designed just for Bentonville.” During our initial meeting, Burrwood Living put the Bentonville neighbourhood at the centre of their goal. Chasen Garrett Architects in Fort Smith said, “We have been privileged to be a part of accomplishing that goal for our client and the community.”