In a partnership with Michigan City and the Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District (NICTD), Flaherty & Collins Properties is set to construct a US$ 80M Flaherty & Collins Transit-Oriented Apartment in the Northwest Indiana city, located on the south side of Lake Michigan. The 12-story project, with a placeholder name of 11th Street Central, will include a new rail station for the South Shore Line stop at 11th Street. It will also have 208 premium residential units, over 10,000 square feet of commercial space, and a parking garage with 558 spaces. The development will be bounded by 10th and 11th streets on the north and south, and Franklin and Pine Streets on the west and east. Also Read: New Annex Group housing development planned for Bloomington, Indiana The Flaherty & Collins Transit-Oriented Apartments will be developed alongside a US$ 649M South Shore Line’s Double Track project under which commuter railroad’s tracks will be moved to the side of city streets, some street crossings closed and a second set of tracks added to single-track territory between the city and Gary. The Northwest Indiana Regional Development Authority (RDA) is the local fiscal agent for the South Shore Line’s Double Track project. The authority has been instrumental in securing funding from local, state and federal sources for both Double Track and the West Lake Corridor commuter railroad extension through Hammond and Munster. Upon completion, the South Shore projects quicker and more frequent trips to and from Chicago will more than triple the routes daily ridership out of Michigan City and cut the commuting time from Michigan City to downtown Chicago by 67 minutes. The Transit-Oriented project aims to break ground in the summer of 2023, and have the new transit station open by May 2024, with apartments complete by spring of 2025 while the Double Track project is currently underway, with the former 11th Street station having closed last spring. The South Shore expects the latter project to be completed in early 2024.