A US$ 11M development deal that will result in the construction of a new Lowe distribution center in the Roanoke Valley,  intended to enable Lowe’s to deliver products faster and more efficiently to customers in the region, was announced recently by Cherney Development. This project is being developed through a partnership between the Roanoke-based Cherney and  Samet Corporation, one of the leading contractors and development companies for the Southeast. The facility will be a 60,000–square–foot warehouse facility built within the TechPark in Roanoke County’s Valley. The project’s site is an 8.45–acre lot located at Technology Drive in West Roanoke County close to the Dixie Caverns and it was purchased last January by Cherney. This warehouse facility will function as a delivery terminal, providing last-mile delivery services for large items such as appliances,  patio furniture, or grills. Also Read  Copperwing Logistics Center to be developed in Arizona Developers expect construction on the new Lowe’s distribution center to commence in a few months and the project will be rounded up within a year. First Community Bank will provide the financing to develop this warehouse distribution center, which is expected to provide about 70 employment opportunities at the work site ranging from drivers to warehouse workers. According to Jim Cherney, CEO and founder of Cherney Development, this new Lowe’s distribution center will provide the physical infrastructure needed to realize the full benefits of advanced logistics processes, which incorporate the use of trending technologies such as 5G IOT technology for the delivery of consumer goods. Cherney also said his company was excited to work with Samet Corporation and the Roanoke County Economic Development, who played a huge role in making this development take place in Roanoke Valley. Samet’s Regional Vice President, Ken Grube, also said his company was thrilled to be part of the site development and construction of Lowe’s distribution center. Grube mentioned that Samet has been developing projects like this for more than 60 years and the company understands how essential it is to create trusted partnerships with all key stakeholders.