To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Planning approval for the redevelopment of the former Daily Mail printworks in Rotherhithe, south London, into offices, has been awarded to HawkinsBrown. The Southwark Council’s planning committee unanimously supported the plans. It entails the conversion of the site’s existing large press halls and spine into 45,504m2 of offices and shops while converting the central void into an atrium. The redevelopment of the former Daily Mail printworks in Rotherhithe would also include an addition to the southern portion of the current structure. Furthermore, a roof addition would be constructed, being five, six, or seven stories tall and facing a brand-new park. A room that could be used for meetings or performances would also be included. The project is a component of British Land’s £4 billion regeneration of Canada Water. The mega project is being master planned by Allies and Morrison. It includes projects by Asif Khan, Haworth Tompkins, Morris+Company, Allford Hall Monaghan Morris, and Morris+Company. It is next to the Bjarke Ingels Group’s recently approved three-building masterplan. Read Also: Work to commence at Silvertown Royal Docks Redevelopment Project Site Since 2017, the enormous industrial structure known as Harmsworth Quay has served as a nightclub with a 6,000-person capacity. Since then, DJ Magazine has consistently ranked it among the top 10 nightclubs in the world. As a result, more than 10,000 people have signed a petition asking for the nightclub to be saved. Planners at Southwark Council stated that the use had been “very successful.” This is despite the “significant number of objections which have been garnered in respect of the loss of the club/music venue.” They acknowledged as well that important cultural uses are protected by the local plan. But the Printworks London nightclub was only intended to be used temporarily while a new location was being developed. Therefore, according to planning officials, the protection given to cultural buildings does not apply. Elsewhere, according to planners, the proposed retrofit seeks to respond to the industrial heritage of the site. Moreover, it will offer a modern, flexible and unique office environment intended to become a unique employment spot within the town center.