To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Plans have been approved for the construction of brand-new hotel development at Boundary House on Jewry Street in the Square Mile. The City of London Corporation’s Planning and Transportation Committee approved the  Ploberger Hotel Group (RP Assets Limited) project. The brand-new hotel development at Boundary House will include 311 hotel rooms as well as a rooftop restaurant. Additionally, it will have a ground-floor café/bar that is both open to the public. Along with plans for a cultural hub, the development will also include a co-working space. The latter will have free and discounted access to podcasting studios. Further, the hotel will have meeting spaces, as well as event spaces for community and educational uses. Along with short-term cycle parking, a widened walkway, planters, and seating will improve the public realm on Jewry Street. The brand-new hotel development at Boundary House will partially reuse the floor slab, columns, and foundations. Read Also: Main contractor selected for Verdant office project in London According to Shravan Joshi, “The City’s recovery is centered on luring the UK and foreign tourists with a vibrant leisure and tourism offer.” Joshi is the chairman of the planning and transportation committee. “In addition to our world-class financial and professional services sector, we also want to offer flexible spaces for SMEs, start-ups, and community and cultural uses. Sustainability has been a key factor in developing this plan. Thus, we will increase tourism and offer a specialized co-working space to meet changing business needs,” said Joshi. “We are thrilled by the potential of Boundary House to help re-imagine this part of the City as a more sustainable and dynamic place of economic and social activity. It will also bring on the City Corporation’s aspirations for a truly 24/7 City,” a spokesperson for the Ploberger Hotel Group (RP Assets Limited) said. “We have closely collaborated with the City Corporation to ensure that our proposals put the needs of the community first. Furthermore, we will have the potential to introduce something new and inventive to the Square Mile.” 