The contractor for the regeneration of Gibbs Crescent, which is a part of Oxford housing estate redevelopment, has been selected. Henry Construction is the contractor in question. The company was selected by the housing association A2Dominion. The £33 million project is the first deal that A2Dominion and Henry Construction have reached. The work entails the design and construction of 140 affordable homes as well as the demolition of old housing. Site development and related infrastructure are additional tasks. Construction on the six-story replacement building is scheduled to start this month. A2 Dominion‘s Steven Waite, director of technical & commercial, stated: “We anticipate that the revitalization of Gibbs Crescent will significantly improve the neighborhood. As a result, it will give the locals access to much-needed, affordable family homes. A2Dominion strives to provide our residents with high-quality, well-designed homes, managed facilities, and community-focused services.” “We are extremely proud to have successfully secured our first task with A2Dominion,” said Joe Bonner, director at Henry Construction. ” Now, we will provide Oxford with desperately needed affordable housing. Similarly, are eager to collaborate with A2Dominion, Silver, an employers agent and cost consultant, HGP Architects, and Reuby & Stagg, a structural engineer.” Read Also: Contractor selected for the Edinburgh’s Granton Waterfront redevelopment The last structural beam was erected late in May at the new Paradise Street housing development. The celebration was held on May 25 and was attended by Oxford City Council, Exel Construction, and A2Dominion. A customary “topping out” ceremony came next. 30 PRS (Private Rented Sector) units make up the city centre development. Thus, it will take the place of the previous Simon House hostel that we have reestablished at Matilda House in Cowley. The area’s plan calls for 170 new homes, with a mix of one- and two-bedroom apartments on the site. Gibbs Crescent’s 140 affordable apartments are part of this. Oxford City Council granted the two sites planning permission in October 2019. Moreover, the new development on Paradise Street is situated just meters away from the main shopping city and Oxford Station.