An important milestone has been reached in the development of a new, sustainable, and well-connected coastal town at Edinburgh’s Granton Waterfront. Following a competitive procurement process, the City of Edinburgh Council has chosen The Cruden Group as the preferred bidder. Thus, they’ll advance the ambitious outline business case for Edinburgh’s Granton Waterfront redevelopment. It is hoped that the contract will be signed by both parties in the coming weeks. The Council and Cruden will collaborate to advance pre-development work over the next couple of years, including detailed plans for about 750 net-zero homes for sale and rent, commercial space, new and improved sustainable transportation infrastructure, and a public realm that will connect the surrounding neighborhoods with the Waterfront. A new school and medical facility will also be built as part of the project’s first phase. Read Also: Plans Set for Confederation Park Community Centre Project in Vancouver The Council will also collaborate with its new development partner to propose a low carbon energy option for the project’s initial and subsequent phases, furthering its goal of achieving net-zero emissions by 2030. Smith Scott Mullen, a local award-winning architect, will join the Cruden Group. Edinburgh’s Granton Waterfront redevelopment project will also be worked on by renowned Scandinavian architect C. F. Moller, who will bring their vast international experience in implementing large-scale coastal regeneration. In order to create a blueprint for the Capital’s 20-minute neighborhood model, they will set extremely high standards using exemplary design, ensuring that residents have access to all the amenities they require, including workspace, retail, and cultural opportunities close to home. Edinburgh’s Granton Waterfront redevelopment has already experienced Great progress. Over 500 net-zero affordable homes are currently being built at Western Villages off Marine Drive. Another 75 was built behind the former Granton Station building. Additionally, three commercial buildings with frontage on Waterfront Avenue are also being built. All of these projects will create new, improved routes for active transportation as well as high-quality new public space. 