To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Having solar panels on the roof of your home can extend the lifespan of your roof by as much as 5 years. Around 4% of U.S. homes are powered by solar power, with the most common source being solar panels. But standard solar panels aren’t the only option you have to put on the roof of your home. Here are some of the newest solar roof trends you could opt for instead. Solar shingles are growing in popularity as they are more pleasing to the eye than large, bulky solar panels. Curb appeal is very important to homeowners and can even add value to a home, so flat shingles that look like a normal roof are often preferred. Another advantage that solar shingles have over panels is that they have a longer lifespan. They typically last around 30 years, compared to the 20 to 25-year lifespan of panels. The maintenance of solar shingles is simpler, too. Solar panels should be annually cleaned and inspected, whereas solar shingles need nothing more than a quick hose down and brushing once in a while. Metal roofing is a sustainable option that is also durable, which is why they’ve become a more common feature in recent years. But now metal roofs are being combined with solar technology for an even more environmentally-friendly option. Metal solar roofing usually looks like a standard roof, but it contains solar film as well. One of the biggest benefits of a metal solar roof is that it comes as one large piece, which means it is easy and quick to install. Snow and ice also tend to slip straight off it which is handy if you live in a state with cold winters, such as North Dakota or Atlanta. If you opt for a metal solar roof like this, make sure it’s finished off with a suitable soffit. In case you’re thinking what is a soffit, it’s a roof component that adds curb appeal and protects your home from moisture. These can be made from various materials, but aluminium goes well with a metal roof. If you prefer to have solar panels on the roof of your home, you have two choices; a rail mounting system or a rail-less one. Rail-mounting systems were the original choice, but a rail-less system is more aesthetically pleasing as it’s flatter and the wires are neatly hidden. You can also save money by choosing a rail-less solar roofing system as they are lighter and easier to transport. Trained installers can usually put these solar panels up quicker, so you’ll save on labor costs and start generating electricity sooner rather than later. There’s no doubt that solar power is the future. For years, solar panels have been installed by thousands of homeowners. But technology and trends have evolved and now there are more options for people who want to put solar power on the roofs of their homes.