To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video A 1.5 million-square-foot expansion project of the QTS data centre in Virginia’s Henrico County has gotten underway. As a result, the 1.4 million square foot data centre next door will have more space. The data centre-focused REIT with headquarters in Overland Park, Kansas, recently acquired 200 acres near its current site to enable a future expansion that might add up to 240 megawatts of capacity across 1.5 million more square feet. The site in White Oak Technology Park would effectively quadruple with the development, making it one of the biggest data centres in the entire globe. Due to the Richmond Network Access Point, or NAP, which connects to four high-speed transcontinental subsea cables and more than 20 other network providers, the centre is already distinctive and significant on a global scale. It was one of only 11 international internet connection points in the U.S. at the time when it first appeared three years ago. Also Read: Virginia State Commission Approves Dominion Energy Solar Projects It connected a variety of land-based data networks with high-speed underwater data cables to Spain and Brazil. Additionally, the facility gains from an original interface with the brand-new DE-CIX Richmond situated inside QTS. This ground-breaking internet exchange, or IX, is a component of North America’s biggest carrier- and data centre-neutral interconnection network. “Henrico and the White Oak Technology Park have been wonderful to QTS, and we will keep looking for additional investment opportunities as demonstrated by the most recent expansion of the Richmond site by more than 200 acres. We understand that the digital business sector is booming, that the data centre sector is expanding rapidly to keep up with this shift, and that we have all the resources necessary to usher in a new era of international communications. Clint Heiden, a co-founder of the QTS Richmond NAP, on the other hand said, “We look forward to leading the charge together as we have found a terrific location to create the cornerstone of Internet infrastructure at the Richmond NAP in Henrico, Virginia.