To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video An innovative addition to Plascon’s robust Protective Coatings range, the new Plascotuff 3500 Aluminium is ideally positioned for use in infrastructure, piping, tankage and roofing applications. The existing Plascotuff 3500 series is a high-build epoxy within the Plascon Protective Coatings range that comes in two variants – a standard Grey and Tintable transparent base. Building upon the performance factors and characteristics of the series, and in response to an expressed need from light and heavy industry, the range has been extended to incorporate an Aluminium version. The standard Plascotuff 3500 already boasts exceptionally high performance factors. Based on this, the addition of the aluminium flake-filled component further enhances its benefits in both the anti-corrosive performance and aesthetics aspects of the coating. This addition complements and completes the Plascotuff 3500 range. Plascotuff 3500 Aluminium is a twin-pack epoxy that comes with many stand-out features and benefits. These include: ● It has a semi-gloss finish that is surface tolerant.● Drying time is approximately 2 hours for the product to be touch dry (@ 23°C), and 5 hours for over-coating.● It is a high-volume solids product (80%).● It can be easily applied using brush, roller or spray methods.● It can be applied to suitably prepared mild steel, galvanized steel and concrete.● It is ideal for use when long-life expectancies are required in corrosive environments.● It is a high-build epoxy (DFT – 100 to 200 microns) designed for maintenance on structural steel and tankage where surface preparation can be limited to mechanical cleaning. With greater focus and investment in R&D, Plascon’s vision is to deliver protective coatings that meet customers’ expectations. This is certainly being achieved with the introduction of Plascotuff 3500 Aluminium! After the initial launch period, further stock of Plascotuff 3500 Aluminium will be available on a Made-to-Order basis. For more information visit www.plascon.com.