To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video The Los Angeles Sixth Street Viaduct, also called the Ribbon of Light, has finished construction. The $588 million building, which replaces the previous structure from 1932, is 3,500 feet long and 46 feet wide. It has space for cars, people on foot, and bike lanes. It crosses the LA River and connects the Downtown Arts District on the west to Boyle Heights on the east. With ten pairs of sculptural arches, some of which are placed in the same locations as in the original 1932 idea, the design alludes to it. Under the viaduct, a 12-acre public park with a cafe and an art plaza will be constructed. It will be accessed by walkways and a bike ramp that connects to the LA River. Also Read: Construction of 20 Arches on Sixth Street, Los Angeles to be completed The City of Los Angeles Bureau of Engineering chose a design team that included the following professionals: AC Martin as an urban planner, HNTB as an engineer and executive architect, Michael Maltzan Architecture as a design architect, and Hargreaves Associates as a landscape architect. Councilman for the City of Los Angeles, Kevin de León, said: “We are happy to reopen the newly built Sixth Street Viaduct and usher in a new era for Los Angeles after more than six years of being closed. This bridge will reclaim its position as one of the most recognizable monuments in Los Angeles. One of the most inspirational public works projects in the history of our city will be honoured at this ceremony as a result of the many years of hard effort that went into its creation. Mayor Eric Garcetti stated that the bridge is a “love letter to the city.” Michael Maltzan’s new viaduct replaces a dilapidated Art Deco bridge from the Depression era that functioned as a landmark for Angelenos before it was demolished in 2016. About 30 runners from the Boyle Heights Bridge Runners were stationed at the bridge’s western entrance wearing shirts bearing pictures of the former bridge. During the opening ceremony, it was clear that they were eager to see the new location.