Plans for the construction of the CEM Ability Village are moving ahead. Recently, the Charismatic Evangelistic Ministry (CEM) organized a dinner to raise funds for the implementation of the project. The aim of the project is to establish a social infrastructure for people with disabilities (PWD). Read also:Agreement Signed for La Bella Casa Estate Development in Nigeria The project, with a cost estimate of about $390 million, would be built on a 500-acre piece of land in Agortor, Shai Osudoku District. Scheduled to start in October, it will provide PWDs with ideal support in the fields of health and social care. Other fields include education and training, as well as other activities that will improve their economic activities. According to Rev. Grace Akrofi, chief executive officer of the CEM Ability Village Project, the health facility would have an ultra-modern hospital. The hospital will provide social care, advocacy, counseling, information, and outreach services across the country. With regard to education, she stated that a Vocational Education and Training (VET) facility would offer training programs in ICT, fashion, and design. Other training offered will be web development, cosmetology and hair styling, carpentry, and food and beverage management among others. The third model, included financial support, business grants, and a technology center for software development and other creative opportunities. The special guest and Vice President, Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia, praised the church for making the bold move that would make the PWDs happy. He said that the CEM Ability Village Support is the conclusion of all the good work. This is because it will help PWDs all around the nation engage fully in all parts of life. He stated that the aid would get rid of the communication barrier and other problems that PWDs faced. This includes social exclusion, mental and physical difficulties, discrimination, stigmatization, lack of self-esteem, and financial issues. He committed to taking action to establish more inclusive communities for people with disabilities.