To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Construction has commenced on Titan Development‘s Westpointe40 building 1 industrial project in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Recently, a groundbreaking ceremony was held for the 150,000-square-foot building, which is intended for warehousing, manufacturing, and distribution. Prior to the groundbreaking, about 36% of the property had been pre-leased, which equates to  54,000 square feet. According to Titan’s director of acquisitions, Sal Perdomo, it was leased out to an undisclosed national, publicly traded company. He also mentioned that this initial pre-leased space shows the strong demand for industrial spaces in the region. Also Read Developer to Move Forward with Hutto TechCenter Industrial Project in Texas The Westpointe40 Building 1 development, is taking place within a 106-acre business park situated at I-40 and 98th Street. Ideally positioned at a one-minute driving distance away from Interstate 40, the new building provides prospective tenants with transit accessibility. This route is frequently accessed by warehousing and distribution users, and Titan intends to lure such tenants. Construction on the industrial project is expected to reach completion by Q2 of 2023. Westpointe40 Building 1 will feature several amenities suitable for warehousing, distribution, light manufacturing, and service users. Spaces provided will include a rear-load configuration, 32′ clear height, dock-high and grade-level doors, and ample trailer parking. Additionally, the building is designed to accommodate users seeking spaces ranging between 50,000 and 150,000 square feet. The development team working on Westpointe40 Building 1 includes Wilger Enterprises, serving as the general contractor. While Tierra West will serve as the civil engineer and Consensus Planning will be the entitlement consultant. The leasing arrangements are being handled by Riley McKee, Alex Pulliam, Jim Wible, and Jim Hakeem of NAI SunVista. Louie Sanchez, a District 1 Councilor said he was excited to see Westpointe40’s first building become a reality. Given that, the new development would serve in driving future job growth for the Westside. Sanchez also mentioned that the completion of the Daytona Road/Loop at Westpointe40 would also create alternate routes for trucks. Thus, enabling trucks to avoid the nearby neighborhood and also making improvements to the residents’ overall quality of life. 