Casinos and gambling games are a billion-dollar industry with multiple players. Unfortunately, casinos have long been a source of several environmental concerns, ranging from constant energy consumption to increased carbon footprint brought by tourists heading to casino-friendly destinations, such as Las Vegas. However, in the wake of increased adoption of sustainable practices, casinos have made efforts towards adopting green practices. Below are a few ways casinos can embrace environmental sustainability. Casinos should begin their environmental sustainability efforts by adopting eco-friendly construction materials. With the help of I-5 Design Build experts, casinos can create eco-friendly venues using modern construction methods that don’t compromise aesthetics. Casino design also significantly influences its sustainability. For instance, doors and window placements determine the heating and cooling systems required by the casino, so design experts should make strategic placement a primary consideration. The constant need for electrical lighting is probably the biggest environmental concern for most casinos. Casino architects often omit windows in their designs to create a timeless environment. This explains why most casinos also don’t have wall clocks. Artificial lighting and no clocks coupled with repetitive music are meant to encourage people to continue gambling. Fortunately, modern-day casinos can achieve these goals without hurting the environment. Modern casino designs have skylights, which provide adequate lighting without increasing the demand for fossil fuels. Previous modern designs, such as the Turtle Creek Casino, have reportedly reduced energy consumption by 50% and increased revenue. Apart from skylights, casino designers can recommend the use of LED lights. If natural lights aren’t viable, especially if it risks casino profits, designers should consider switching to LED lighting. Replacing incandescent light fixtures with LED lights promotes sustainability. Casinos can also promote environmental sustainability by recycling various materials. Embedding various natural materials in its building is an excellent way for casinos to recycle timber, slate, and marble. Most casinos have also switched to solar power generated from top-mounted solar panels. Additionally, casinos can construct a water recycling system that collects water from kitchens and bathrooms into a tank that is filtered to remove bad organisms before being reused. Land-based casinos should also explore options of environmentally-friendly furniture items, such as poker tables, lounge seats, and roulette wheels, constructed primarily from recycled materials. Land-based casinos have large heating systems and boiler rooms that produce sufficient heat to warm the lounge and make guests feel comfortable. The heat produced in boiler rooms can be used to warm the lounge, heat water, or power emergency generators. Unfortunately, most of the generated heat goes to waste. Casinos can collect and channel the excess heat to power the generators full-time, generating sufficient electricity to reduce overreliance on energy from the grid. Land-based casinos will become eco-friendly entertainment venues if they embrace these sustainable practices. However, casinos shouldn’t necessarily renovate or make these costly installations to promote sustainability. Simple measures such as introducing a green indoor environment by having indoor plants and using recyclable materials are beneficial to the environment. Going green has a significant impact on the environment and overall carbon footprint. 