Please enable JavaScript The second phase of the redevelopment of the BBC Television Centre in London’s White City will begin soon. The plans for the £500 million project have been revealed by Mitsui Fudosan and Stanhope. The two will serve as the development manager. The project consists of the development of 511 homes in total across four different plots. This will include a modern crescent-shaped building with 180 apartments. Additionally, it will include a modern 25-story tall building with 167 apartments scheduled to be finished in 2026. The primary construction partner to replace Mace‘s initial role in the extensive project has not yet been announced by Stanhope. The group of new structures is intended to stand out and have its own personality. Thus it will be able to enhance the existing structures throughout the larger estate. Read Also: Plans approved for brand-new hotel development at Boundary House on Jewry Street, UK  “We are thrilled to be working with Mitsui Fudosan as development manager for Phase 2 of the BBC Television Centre. It entails delivery of a new residential 25-story tower with 167 apartments and 180 apartments in a crescent block by 2026,” said Jonathan Trout, Property & Commercial Director at Stanhope. “The beginning of phase 2 demonstrates Stanhope and Mitsui Fudosan’s dedication to the delivery of much-needed new housing. This will include affordable housing, in Hammersmith & Fulham and our long-term commitment to the area,” said Mitsui Fudosan. After recently acquiring sole ownership of Phase 2, Tomoo Nakamura, managing director of Mitsui Fudosan UK, stated: “We are thrilled to be able to continue working with Stanhope as development manager for the delivery of nearly 350 new apartments.” In two brand-new buildings at Television Centre called Macfarlane Place, Kier has already begun construction on 142 new affordable homes for Peabody. Completion is scheduled for early 2024. The new structures are created by Maccreanor Lavington Architects. Thus, it will take the place of the now-demolished former BBC multi-story parking garage on Wood Lane. 