To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Plans have been revealed for the implementation of the Oppidum underground residences project in the UAE. The ultra-luxury project aims to provide military-grade protection. Additionally, it also aims to provide top-notch security for high-end clients. Undoubtedly, the Oppidum underground residences project in the UAE provides the world with the first its kind underground experience. The project optimizes best for a super-luxury, everyday lifestyle. However, its design considers unforeseeable events in the future. Read Also Aljada Development Project Updates, Sharjah, UAE The luxury underground project was launched by Oppidum. The fortified underground residences developer proudly unveiled its latest addition to its portfolio. Zamrazil was responsible for the project’s concept development. The units provide leisure facilities as well self-contained power. Furthermore, each client will receive gallery space for their collections. The project will also offer sophisticated facilities such as a secure meeting lounge, and a private art gallery alongside a bespoke spa. Moreover, the project aims to cater, design, and deliver to each client’s specifications. The units’ designs are to be entirely individual and personal. The project’s developer expressed through a statement their excitement for the project. The firm noted that the launch of the project will provide the world with the first of its kind underground residence. He further noted that the units are for both short and long-term stays. Additionally, they will be available for leisure, contingency as well as private business use. The Chief Executive Officer of Oppidum commented on the project. Jakub Zamrazil revealed that a part of the firm’s vision is to build top-quality residences. More so the world’s most secure and beautiful contemporary fortified residences. He further noted that it is of human nature to desire protection and security. Jacob concluded by saying that it is great to have an optimistic view of the world. However, not all events are foreseeable and/or preventable. Thus, the Underground Residences Project offers residents an opportunity to be prepared for anything.