To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video The construction of the proposed mixed-use complex dubbed True North Commons in Colorado has begun after almost a decade of planning. Developer Dan Schnepf is overseeing the US$ 500M project. The TrueNorth Commons will be located west of I-25 surrounding North Gate Boulevard before the entry gate to the U.S. AIR FORCE ACADEMY (USAFA). It includes the 37,000-square-foot USAFA Visitors Center, a 250-room 4-star hotel, and a 150-room 3-star hotel. In addition, the development features a 7,500 square-foot indoor skydiving attraction and 25,000 square feet of retail space. Furthermore, there is a proposed 3,000-square-foot gas station and convenience store, and a 200,000-square-foot office complex. Construction on TrueNorth Commons started earlier this year, with some site preparations. But subsequently, the foundation work for the hotel began last month, which will be followed by a groundbreaking sometime this month. Also Read Colorado Air Force Academy Chapel to undergo US$150 million renovation The AFA Visitor Center is expected to be one of TrueNorth Commons’ first elements to reach completion. Its opening date is set for late 2023, although the convenience store and the gas station could open earlier. Other developments coming afterward include the hotel, scheduled for late 2024 or early 2025, and the office complex in 2026. The new Visitor Center which has an exterior design depicting a wing in flight showcases a cadet’s life in service. Through the use of technology and experiential storytelling, visitors will learn about the journey from arrival to graduation. Up until the commissioning of officers into the Air Force or Space Force. Another notable feature of the Center will be the craft hanging from the ceiling, with glider controls attached to it. This will enable visitors to try out the speed challenge test, and experience running at the local altitude. The nine-story hotel at TrueNorth Commons is intended to become the second-largest in the Colorado Springs area. Its designs are geared towards achieving a four-diamond rating and also paying homage to the academy and flight.  Two flight simulators will be put on display, featuring actual and reproduced elements of a Boeing 737 NG aircraft. In addition, a 220-degree wraparound screen will also be included as part of this centerpiece. Guests will also have access to amenities such as a rooftop restaurant and bar, a restaurant, and a 15,000-capacity conference area. Provident Resources Group will become the owners of the hotel once it’s completed. The office complex at TrueNorth Commons will be developed by Denver-based Koelbel & Co. Construction on the complex will commence next spring, with a design intended to attract tenants in related fields. Giants involved in areas like technology, cybersecurity space, and aerospace will be sought after. Furthermore, these subject areas will be integrated into the academy’s curriculum. While also providing incubator space for start-ups with a focus on those industries.