To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Phase I implementation of Harvard University’s Allston ERC (Enterprise Research Campus) project is underway. The project comprises 25% income-restricted residential units. This phase of the university’s proposed development offers the largest percentage ever, provided by a private developer and a single project. A lot higher than the mandated minimum of 13% in Boston, Massachusetts. As a result, the city officials and neighborhood representatives were able to reach an affordable-housing deal. The (Boston Planning and Development Agency) BPDA’s board of directors is now set to vote on the Allston ERC project. According to Mayor Michelle Wu, the proposed package presented to the board is a huge step toward improving housing affordability. The mayor praised the university’s efforts, stating that the development of its property in Allston would impact generations to come. Also Read US$ 163M Approved for Construction of Affordable Housing Complexes in Los Angeles Phase I of the proposed Harvard University’s Allston ERC project is planned for the university’s 14-acre Western Avenue parcel. It features a 900,000-square-foot development, consisting of a hotel, conference center, about 350 apartments, and open space. In addition, the development also includes labs and offices, which make up nearly half of the square footage. These plans by the developer, Tishman Speyer are intended to transform the underutilized area into a mixed-use neighborhood, complementing the surrounding region. Harvard University has also made known its intentions to set up a $25 million  Allston-Brighton Affordable Housing Fund. This fund will be established with the aim of providing financial support for the Allston ERC affordable housing project. Furthermore, the University also plans to donate its land at 65 Seattle Street for more affordable housing developments in Allston. Other benefits associated with Allston ERC besides affordable housing, include an expansion of over two acres of public open space. In order to create a close porus and built-up environment accessible to pedestrians. This will also include green spaces, a landscaped plaza as well as lively public art installations. State Rep Kevin Honan, was grateful to everyone who took part in collaborating on the Allston ERC project. He mentioned the Mayor’s administration, Harvard Allston Task Force, Allston Civic Association and others who negotiated for the impacted community.