To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video The Mark, a new multifamily residential complex just west of the UCLA campus in Westwood, Los Angeles is set to begin soon. This was revealed by the project’s developer Landmark Properties, saying that the project would particularly begin this summer. The Mark, according to landmark properties will have a seven-story building with 37 two-, three-, four-, and five-bedroom units. It will also include 166 bedrooms in total. Some of them are reserved for rent as affordable housing in accordance with the conditions of approval. Moreover, artificial hardwood-style flooring in the living areas and carpeting in the bedrooms will all be features of the units. Additionally, washer-dryer sets and other appliances will be included in every unit. Also Read: Construction of US$1 billion Grand LA hotel completed, Los Angeles The Georgia-based real estate development company project is being designed by LOHA. They have used setbacks on the upper floors to create outdoor amenity spaces. This includes a courtyard amenity area and a resort-style pool on the rooftop. The proposal divides the building’s mass into a succession of cubic forms. Additionally, corrugated metal panels and fiber cement boards have been proposed for the façade. By September 2024, work on the Mark at Los Angeles is anticipated to be completed. This is Landmark’s fourth development of dorms for students in the state of California. The private construction followed UCLA’s approximately $900 million investment in its own dorms. This investment has, as a result, increased the number of dormitories on campus by thousands. “High-quality, purpose-built student housing is critically underserved in Westwood. We are therefore excited to offer UCLA students our market-leading offering,” said the president and chief executive officer of Landmark Properties. “Our team did a fantastic job of identifying this off-market opportunity and negotiating a rigorous entitlement process to bring this project to reality,” he concluded.