A contract has been awarded for the South Geelong to Waurn Ponds Duplication project in Australia’s Victoria state.  The contract has been awarded to Djilang Alliance. The alliance consists of McConnell Dowell, Downer Group through Downer Rail, its business unit, Arup and WSP Australia. McConnell Dowell is a major infrastructure construction company founded in New Zealand. Downer Rail is a manufacturer and service provider of railway rolling stock and infrastructure. Arup on the other hand is a British multinational professional services firm headquartered in London. WSP is one of the world’s leading engineering professional services firms in Australia. The South Geelong to Waurn Ponds Duplication project includes the construction of elevated rail bridges. These will be constructed in place of level crossings at Fyans Street and the Surf Coast Highway. An additional 8 km of track will be constructed and signal upgraded as part of the project. Furthermore, the South Geelong and Marshall stations will also be upgraded. Also Read: Contract Awarded for Coffs Harbour Bypass in New South Wales, Australia In addition, new station buildings, landscaped forecourts, second platforms, and accessible pedestrian overpasses will be constructed. Significant construction will begin later this year with an anticipated completion date of late 2024. Djilang Alliance general manager Ewan Henderson spoke on the project. He said, “We understand how important this undertaking is for the people of Geelong. We will therefore provide all the important infrastructure improvements for current and future generations.” The Djilang general manager concluded by saying the team is very happy to work hand in hand with the community in addition to the Rail Projects Victoria. The South Geelong to Waurn Ponds Duplication is a crucial step in providing more frequent and dependable services. It is also a part of the over $1 billion investment in the staged upgrade of the Geelong Line by the Australian and Victorian governments. Other initiatives include the Waurn Ponds Station Upgrade and the Waurn Ponds Stabling and Maintenance Facility. This will allow more regular and dependable passenger services on Victoria’s busiest regional rail line.