Please enable JavaScript Construction on the SouthStone Yards park is set to commence in the city of Frisco, Texas. This is after the Frisco City Council gave its approval for Crow Holdings Development (CHD) to build this four-phased mixed-use project. The Frisco Economic Development Corporation was also involved in this agreement, which will bring 1.1-million-square-feet of mass timber office spaces. This project will be developed on the northeast corner of  Highway 121 and Spring Creek Parkway by 2030. In a nutshell, The SouthStone Yards park is intended for ESG-minded investors and companies seeking the benefits of mass timber structures. Apparently, CHD found reports of tenants stating that employees enjoyed 34% more physical workplace satisfaction in timber structures. They also had 23% lower stress levels, 18% higher ability to concentrate, 8% higher productivity, and 13% greater overall well-being. Also Read US$ 400M Lawrence Office Tower Set to Break Ground in Denver, Colorado Starting with a seven-story office tower, phase I of the SouthStone Yards park will feature 230,000 square feet of office space. This will be an environmentally friendly mass timber building, which will also include structured parking garages. Additionally, this first building will be the first in the Metroplex area. Construction on this phase is scheduled for December 2024. Phase II of the SouthStone Yards park project covers construction on a 10-story, 325,000-square-foot office tower, including parking garages. Construction on the second phase is scheduled for 2026. Next is Phase III, featuring a 7-story, 230,000-square-foot tower, plus additional garage space and this is scheduled for December 2028. Finally, Phase IV will offer another 325,000-square-foot tower and an accompanying garage planned for December 2030. The SouthStone Yards park office spaces were designed through the collaborative efforts of Duda Paine Architects and Gensler. But in addition to the office spaces, the broader project features restaurants, hotels, and retail components. It will also include over 1,000 urban living units with a surrounding Central park. The Office of James Burnett will handle the landscaping designs, which will blend the green spaces within the greater acreage.