To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video According to the Ministry of Roads and Highways, Rehabilitation work on the Ofankor-Nsawam road will commence on July 20. It said that construction on the 33.4-kilometer section, which is a part of the Accra-Kumasi road network, is anticipated to begin on July 19, 2024, and last for two years. Read also:Nembe-Brass Road Project in Nigeria Flagged Off The project, which would be financed by the government, will be carried out by Messrs Maripoma Enterprise Limited and is expected to cost a total of GH 341.48 million. It will include the reconstruction of the current asphaltic concrete pavement, the construction of 11 safe pedestrian crossing facilities, four intersections, and streetlights. The road, that is currently a two-lane dual carriageway, would be expanded to a three-lane dual carriageway with service lanes, as well as enough drainage structures, traffic signs, and road markings. Reportedly, the project’s aim is to reduce travel time, vehicle operational costs, waiting time for public transport, and road crashes within the section. The Ofankor-Nsawam Route is part of national Route 6 (N6) and it is the most economical road in Ghana, operating as a key arterial for communities in the Ga West Municipal Assembly such as Pokuase, Amasaman, Medie, and Sarpeiman. The location of the Ofankor-Nsawam Road makes it one of the most significant links in Ghana’s system. It links the northern, central, western, and southern parts of the state of the country. Additionally, the road is an important link for transit cargo to move from Ghana’s ports to its neighboring landlocked nations of Burkina Faso, Mali, and Niger as well as for trade between Ghana and these countries. Despite the stretch’s apparent importance, the road is still in a poor condition. It has numerous depressions, and potholes, which have led to a lot of traffic congestion there. The government decided to upgrade the road to raise the standard of living along the stretch while also taking into account the looming danger and the road importance to economic activities in the nation. The source claimed that the Government of Ghana recognizes the importance of road transport in supporting socio-economic development of the country. It claimed that the National Transport Policy of the Ministry of Roads and Highways outlined ambitions to create an integrated, effective, cost-effective, and sustainable transport system in response to society needs, fostering growth and alleviation of poverty. o