To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Construction has started on a US$ 12.2M housing project dubbed the Union Suites on Coit in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The three-story, 46,000 square foot apartment structure features a mix of one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartment suites. The apartment prices will vary in affordability, but they are only available to families making between 30 and 80% of the region’s median income. After earning $1.1 million in Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) from the Michigan State Housing Development Authority, the property will offer income-restricted rents to residents. Additionally, eight of the apartments in the construction will be set aside for renters who use Wyoming Housing Commission housing vouchers. A bus route, Coit Park, a school, Medical Mile, and the campus of Grand Rapids Community College are all close to the Union Suites housing project. The development’s residents will also be incorporated into the neighborhood in which it is located. To get the project to construction, according to Chris Bennett, director of housing and community development at Dwelling Place, it needed a number of partners. In Grand Rapids, Union Suites LLC collaborated with the Michigan State Housing Authority to find projects in neighborhoods where rents are rising. Grand Rapids Second Ward Commissioner Milinda Ysasi said that there are several reasons why this endeavor is significant. Firstly, he said, “it gives individuals the choice to decide whether to live in Grand Rapids.” Also Read: US$ 30M Union Carpenters Millwrights Institute Opens in Michigan “We know Grand Rapids has grown more and more costly. However, we don’t want to drive people away because of their income levels or wealth they may or may not have,” concluded Ysasi. Lott3Metz Principal Greg Metz on the other hand said, “For us, it was crucial to give this project longevity and excellence. In order for visitors to see that this is a high-quality project, we added brick to the main floor.”