To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Plans are underway for the development of the Downs Quarter in Altrincham by a joint venture (JV) between The McGoff Group and Consensus Property. BMcGoff Group and Derek Thompson’s Consensus Property are both family-owned Altrincham-based enterprises in the northwest property industry. The Thompson family began assembling the land 19 years ago, constructing and selling 15 apartments and six commercial buildings along The Downs’ site frontage while also setting up the infrastructure for an additional 39 homes to the site’s back. House Crowd purchased the portion of the site in January 2019. Derek Thompson purchased the site back from the administrators last year. This was after the House Crowd development’s subsequent collapse in March 2021. The McGoff Group joined the project at the beginning of 2022 to aid in its advancement. The Downs Quarter in Altrincham is made up of 39 apartments and townhouses as well as a business space. McGoff Construction will complete the Downs Quarter development’s design and construction. This is with the aid of internal resources from group companies Panacea Building Systems (drylining) and McGoff Group Facilities Services. Sales will be handled by McGoff’s residential division, Villafont. Read Also: Construction of 36-storey Fenchurch Street office tower in London to start in 2024 The Downs Quarter in Altrincham is a fantastic site in a highly sought-after location, stated Declan McGoff, joint managing director of the McGoff Group. “We were very excited to have the chance to work with Derek and deliver 39 new homes in Altrincham. Moreover, we can’t wait to get started on site and demonstrate our expertise from various divisions within the group.” Brendan Caloe, head of special projects, continued, “Now that the detailed design of the scheme has started, we anticipate the build of the project to take approximately 61 weeks.” “I am thrilled to be able to hand the completion of this landmark scheme over to the McGoff brothers. This is complete confidence that their professionalism, expertise, and well-earned reputation for excellence over many years. Thus we will ensure that this significant development will be completed to the highest standards,” Derek Thompson added. While Brabners handles the conveyancing and the sale of the plots, Manchester’s Beyond Corporate provides advice on the construction contracts.