Please enable JavaScript Advances in technology have changed every aspect of our lives over the last decade, and security systems are one of the key areas that have benefited from these leaps and bounds. Things have come a long way from the basic surveillance and burglar alarms of ten years ago. Now, smart home security systems are becoming the standard mode of protecting our homes and possessions, with increasingly sophisticated tech guarding against everything from intruders to flood risk. Keep reading to find out more about this evolution and how you can make the most of it. One of the key developments in home security systems is the ability of the homeowner to be able to access them remotely. This means that, from a tropical beach on vacation or on the train on the way to work, you can check whether the system has been set correctly, turn on lights, or access a camera’s feed. The ability to remotely keep an eye on things provides huge peace of mind for owners; plus, you’ll know that, should an anomaly be detected, you’ll be notified instantly via your smartphone. With all the elements that can now be combined in a single home security system, hubs are widely used to enable homeowners to access all of the system’s components from one central console. Choose a security company that provides hubs with direct access to security professionals so that you know that, should an alarm be triggered, prompt action will be taken to protect your property and possessions. Have a look at Brinks home security reviews to get an idea of how this works in practice. You should be able to control everything from your home’s heating and lights to locks and surveillance elements via this central station. Many hubs can connect to a range of other, non-security-related devices and so can be used to control your tv or even to play music. Fully integrated smart systems aren’t just designed to protect against intruders. They often include components such as smoke detectors and carbon monoxide monitors, meaning that they act as a one-stop shop for keeping your home, family, and belongings as safe as possible. Flood risk detectors can now be easily incorporated into a home security system. Typically located in areas of the house where pipes are most likely to freeze (such as in the basement), these detectors will raise the alarm if they sense a tiny trickle – so that you can take prompt action to prevent it from becoming a big problem. Smart doorbells allow you to check who’s come calling before opening the door; two-way audio lets you talk to them, too, and – if necessary – ask them to present their credentials to the camera so that you can be sure of who they say they are. Best of all, you can see and converse with someone who’s come to your door even if you’re not at home, as the tech works remotely. Contact sensors will alert you if you’ve accidentally left a widow ajar before heading off to work: so you can immediately turn around and close it, rather than realize what’s happened when you’re already half an hour into your daily commute. Motion sensors not only provide real-time alerts and raise the alarm if they detect an intruder but can also be set up near potentially dangerous areas of the home so that you can be notified if your young child wanders too close to something they shouldn’t. A decade ago, a homeowner would buy a couple of alarms and get them connected to the landline: choosing where to place the alarms would be pretty much as far as customization went. Today, however, you can work with a security company to create a bespoke security system to suit your home, your family, and your personal circumstances. Additional surveillance and detectors can be installed in rooms containing high-value possession or extra elements added to the system, like smart thermostats. Home security systems have changed virtually beyond recognition over the last ten years. Remote access, additional coverage, and a holistic approach to how homes are used and function have made these systems more effective, user-friendly, and tailored to our needs than ever before. Advances are likely to continue over the next decade, too: expect to see the increased use of AI and machine-learning tech to, for example, ‘learn’ homeowners’ routines and habits so that the alarm can be raised if anything out of the ordinary is suspected. Drones, too, are expected to play a major role in how home security systems look in the near future, both in identifying the presence of an intruder, filming the incursion, and even following the perpetrator as they attempt to flee. Neighborhood watch will take on a whole new meaning, too: the security devices of a whole neighborhood could communicate with each other so that all homeowners are made aware of a potential threat.