Confederation Park in North Burnaby’s Capitol Hill neighbourhood is set to get a stunning, wildly unorthodox community centre. The community centre will be situated at the intersection of Willingdon Avenue and Albert Street. This is just north of Hastings Street. This proposed new centre is a three-storey structure. It will replace the current, inadequate Confederation Community Centre for Seniors, as well as a surface parking lot. The former was constructed back in 1971. Also Read: The Stack, Metro Vancouver’s New Tallest Office Tower Construction to be Complete Soon According to design renderings, the new three-storey confederation park community centre has a large first floor and two arc-shaped, two-story volumes. The volumes are separated by a site-wide pedestrian promenade. From the third floor, a glass-enclosed pedestrian bridge that floats above the promenade connects the arcs. A sizable plaza at the intersection serves as the starting point of the pedestrian promenade. The promenade further ascends to the second level and cuts diagonally through the structure to reach the existing soccer field, and track. It also extends to other portions of the 100-acre public park. A new grand entrance into the park is effectively created by the combination of the plaza and promenade. Revery Architecture (previously known as Bing Thom Architects) designed the new three-storey confederation park community centre. The City of Burnaby is currently seeking public feedback on this design. The new community centre will have a gym with weights and cardio machines. Additionally, a seniors’ facility will be availed with a snooker room, a childcare centre, and a childminding centre. It will also have multipurpose meeting rooms and a cafe. Visitors will also have access to the 1992-built Eileen Dailly Leisure Pool and Fitness Centre, and the nearby Burnaby Public Library McGill Branch. Both amenities will reportedly be kept and integrated into the new community centre complex. The project also calls for a new outdoor covered sports box. This will be built close to the children’s spray park and the current open-air sports box. The new additional box’s roof allows for all-weather use and lighting. A floor surface with multiple uses, storage, restrooms, and spectator seating are additional features. In its capital budget for 2026–2026, the municipal government has allocated $117 million for the construction of the new confederation park community centre. Furthermore, it authorized a $10.8 million contract with Revery Architecture in February 2022. The architect would serve as the project’s lead design company. Up until July 12, 2022, an online survey regarding the initial layout of the new facility is accessible. Later this year, the detailed design will be developed using the gathered public feedback. If everything goes according to plan, construction might start in 2023.