To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video To advance the £1 billion York Central quarter, Homes England and Network Rail have begun looking for a development partner. When the York Central quarter will be fully developed, it will offer up to 2,500 homes, 800,000 square feet of offices, retail space. Additionally, it will offer entertainment options, as well as an expansion of the National Railway Museum. The 45-hectare York Central Site is owned to a large extent by Network Rail and Homes England. It is directly behind York Railway Station. A maximum of 700 residential units and 650,000 square feet of commercial space are anticipated to be delivered. Furthermore, a new access road into the city, modifications to the pedestrian and bicycle networks, and a new entrance to York Railway Station are all included in the masterplan created by Arup and Allies & Morrison. A reserved matters application for £70 million in first phase infrastructure work was approved in 2020. The work is to be carried out by Sisk. This was after an outline planning permission for the mixed-use development was granted in 2019. Firms have until August 25 to submit their interests, with the appointment of the winning partner scheduled for October 2023. Read Also: Plans in for Development of Marine Lake Events Centre in Southport, England The York Central project director at Homes England, Mike Goulding, stated: “With our partner, Network Rail, we are eager to move the delivery of York Central to the next phase of developer procurement. In addition, it is the nation’s largest regeneration and truly transformative project. Finding the ideal development partner will be essential to creating a high-quality, sustainably designed neighborhood. Thus, they will provide thousands of people with homes and employment opportunities.” The director of development at JLL, Henry Burton, added: “It’s very exciting to formally begin the search for a developer partner for the landowners. We will discover a partner through this process who appreciates the scope and vision of this site. York Central quarter is one of the UK’s select large-scale regeneration projects. “York Central will strengthen the city’s economy over the next ten years by luring new companies. Additionally, it will enhance tourism, and bring much-needed residential properties to the area,”