If you are a commercial property owner, it is vital to have a solid marketing strategy in place. Apart from your primary marketing tools, the commercial property website, branding, and video, you should also invest in property advertisements to reach your target audience and maximize revenue. An effective advertising strategy for your commercial property enables you to get the right number of engaged and targeted audiences at the right time and in the most cost-efficient way. Read on for three ways to advertise your commercial property to increase the chances of getting long-term tenants. Since most people in the world today are on social media, running social media ads is an effective way to reach a broad target audience. Social media provides multiple platforms offering different types of advertising you could pick to market your commercial property.  To leverage social media advertising, you should first identify an ideal platform and create a profile. Some popular platforms that can enable you to drive the desired results quickly include: If you want to run business-to-business company advertisements, you should consider creating a profile on LinkedIn. This social media platform allows you to target your ads by industry, the company, size, location, and job seniority, enabling you to zone in on the specific audience you want to reach. LinkedIn is a business-oriented channel, so anyone who sees your commercial property ad already has a professional mindset. With over 1.4 billion daily active Facebook users, running your social ads on Facebook can get your property noticed by a broad audience. It also has targeting features like job titles, location, specific interests, and age, ensuring your ads show to the right people. You should then publish in-feed ads or create video and intext ads to appeal to your target audience. To develop high-quality images for your social advertising that help you reach your commercial property marketing goals, click here. Purchasing ad space in commercial real estate trade journals like Real Estate Forum, Urban Land Magazine, or National Real Estate Investor can enable you to access a highly targeted audience of prospective partners and customers. Trade journals often feature real estate market reports, trends, and current industry insights relevant to your target client base. They are often read by potential buyers or tenants and CRE professionals who are highly active in the industry, increasing your chances of driving the desired results. There are various trade journal advertising options you could choose from depending on circulation numbers, the number of managed platforms, and the publication. They include website advertising, newsletter advertising, and journal or magazine advertising. One of the most effective ways to advertise your commercial property is by listing it on online marketplaces that link buyers and tenants. Commercial real estate websites such as LoopNet and CoStar allow you to promote your property to prospective tenants, investors, and brokers already looking for property to buy or lease, improving your chances of driving the desired outcome. CRE sites are regularly updated with quality content, enabling them to rank in search engines, so target customers can easily access them. Depending on the commercial real estate website’s audience and reach, you could opt for premium listings or subscription plans. Advertising is an excellent way to attract more tenants and build your brand’s awareness. Implement the above strategies to advertise your commercial property to achieve its maximum potential.