To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video While landscaping is an excellent way to make your new home more beautiful and let you feel at home, it significantly increases your property’s worth. Proper landscaping can offer shrubs for cool breezes, open areas for winter snow accumulation, and shade trees, making your new home more energy-efficient. A professionally landscaped yard directs water flow further away from your home’s foundation, preventing future structural issues. Landscaping offers multiple options to make your new property more functional and appealing. Walkways and pathways ensure you don’t track water and mud into the house. It also enhances easy navigation throughout your yard. Here are six landscaping tips for a new home. Professional and experienced landscaping companies such as Malone’s Landscape have the skills, knowledge, and expertise to ensure a suitable landscape design that resonates with your new home while meeting your requirements. They’ll study your home elevation and soil to identify the plants and designs that suit your yard perfectly. Expert landscapers will also advise you on how to increase your property’s appeal and the features that will beautify your garden. Hiring experts is cost-effective because you won’t have to invest in the tools ideal for proper landscaping. It’s also an affordable way to boost your new space’s curb appeal. Landscape budgeting lets you determine how much money you want to invest, your landscaping costs, and what you want to spend on. Landscaping is a home improvement investment that eventually pays off by making your home feel and look better and increasing its worth. Mulching involves adding covering the soil with materials, including wood chips, bark, or other organic mulches, to preserve moisture, improving soil condition. These landscaping tips save a lot of landscape maintenance time, plus it’s eco-friendly. Mulching controls weed growth and germination, and prevents soil-borne diseases from spreading. Mulches also provide insulation for stabilizing soil temperature while protecting plant roots from harsh winter or summer temperatures. Plants improve your property’s value, define space, provide shade, and promote good health. Depending on your yard’s environmental conditions, such as the microclimate, shade and sun patterns, soil composition, and planting zone, it’s crucial to choose plants that are more likely to thrive in your given environment. You also consider the plant’s water requirements, color, texture, mature height, and form. You should also test your soil to determine the plants suitable for your yard. Poor drainage causes water to pool in your yard, killing the lawn, bushes, trees, and other plants. It also prevents structural cracks or damage in your new home’s foundation and soil erosion. The possible solutions for your drainage concerns are determined by your soil’s condition, the property’s slope, the shape and size of your home, the outbuildings’ location, and the overall landscaping design. You may consult a professional landscaper for the best drainage solution for your new home. Hardscaping is a landscaping aspect that offers functionality and structure to your outdoor spaces. You can use various hardscape features in your yard, including stone pathways, retaining walls, patios and decks, fountains, and driveways. Landscaping is an excellent way to boost your property’s appeal, make it more functional, and increase its worth. Consider using these landscaping tips for a new home.