To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Plans for the construction of a proposed Muvumba multipurpose dam and power plant installation are gearing up. The Rwanda Water Resources Board is therefore looking to prequalify contractors for the implementation of the project. The task includes the construction of a high dam with a spillway, intake tower, diversion/outlet culvert, upstream cofferdam, and a hydropower plant on the Muvumba River. The river flows through Nyagatare District and is in the northeastern region of Rwanda. The dam will be built approximately 12 kilometers upstream of Nyagatare Town. It will be 39 meters tall with a 55 million m3 storage capacity. Also Read: Plans Underway for Construction of First Cooking Gas Plant in Rwanda Installed hydropower will have a 1MW (500KW x 2) capacity. In addition, it will be able to produce 6.94 GWh annually. Furthermore, other than energy production, the dam will provide water for cattle, agriculture, and domestic usage. August 16th, 2022 is the scheduled deadline for all applications. The Request for Bids from Prequalified Bidders will be issued in September 2022. All qualified Applicants, as described in the Procurement Framework, may participate in the prequalification process. This will follow the processes outlined in the African Development Bank‘s Procurement Policy for Bank Group Funded Operations, dated October 2015 (“Procurement Framework”). The Rwanda Water Resources Board is available to provide further information to all interested parties at their offices between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Interested applicants may acquire a full set of prequalification materials in English without charge by sending a written application to the address shown below: During business hours, the document will be available for collection at the Rwanda Water Resources Board Headquarters, Nyarugenge Pension Plaza, KN 3 Road, Kigali, Rwanda. There will be a pre-application meeting on July 22nd, 2022, at 10 a.m. Kigali time. The Online meeting will be by email invites only. The Rwanda Water Resources Board Invitations will send out the invitations to all qualifying parties through email.