To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Woodhill Station West development, the first phase of the US$ 250M Woodhill Homes project in Ohio has commenced. Starting with this initial phase, the project will transform an empty lot in the Buckeye-Woodhill community into 120  affordable apartments. This construction phase marks the first step toward implementing the Buckeye-Woodhill Transformation Plan for the six-phased housing project. The Cuyahoga Metropolitan Housing Authority (CMHA) and the city of Cleveland were instrumental in actualizing the Woodhill Station West development.  Through their collaborative efforts and inputs from residents and businesses, this transformation plan was created. In the end, the selected plan was tailored to redevelop the Woodhill Homes properties into several new mixed-income apartment buildings. Also Read Largest residential development in Philadelphia secures US$400 million The Community Builders (TCB) are working on Woodhill Station West, with support from CMHA and the city of Cleveland. Presently, some construction equipment has been mounted on site and Marous Brothers Construction, the general contractor has begun operations. The project’s site is located at the former Buckeye-Woodland Elementary School, opposite the Buckeye-Woodhill Rapid station on 9511 Buckeye Road. Construction on phase I is expected to reach completion by the fall of 2023. The Woodhill Station West development involves the construction of 120 apartments, consisting of 42 one-bedrooms, 62 two-bedrooms, and 16 three-bedrooms. Out of the 120 units, 90 will be set aside for current Woodhill residents. Furthermore, 18 units will also be reserved for residents earning below 60% of the AMI. Followed by another 12 units intended for residents earning below 80% of the AMI. Other amenities are also featured in the development such as a fitness center, community room, and outdoor picnic area. In addition, a playground will also be built, spanning 4,520 square feet of community space. Funding for the Us$ 45M Woodhill Station West development will be covered using finances provided by the HUD grant. These funding options include the US$ 350,000 HUD Choice Neighborhoods Planning Grant, awarded to CMHA in 2018. Plus the US$ 35M HUD Choice Neighborhoods Implementation grant, awarded to CMHA for the project’s execution in May 2021. Other available funding options for the project also include the Housing Tax Credits and City of Cleveland HOME funds.