To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video The Ca Mau 1 offshore wind farm, the largest in size in Vietnam, which will be commissioned in October 2022, will have a power generation capacity of 350 MW, and will be able to generate up to 1,100,000 MWh per year. Sarens is actively involved in the load-in and load-out of the wind turbines at the international port of Long An, from where they will be transferred to their final location in the Mekong Delta. The new Ca Mau 1 offshore wind farm is now in the final stages of construction prior to commissioning in October this year. The new facility, the largest so far in Vietnam, is expected to reduce the country’s emissions by up to 880,000 tons of CO2 per year and avoid the combustion of up to 450,000 tons of conventional coal. Also read Joint Venture Set for Ba Ria-Vung Tau Offshore Wind Farm Project in Vietnam This project, which development has been divided into four phases, will represent an important step forward in the production of renewable energies in Vietnam, as it will provide the national electricity grid with an output of up to 1.1 GWh per year thanks to its 350 MW of power, enough to meet the growing energy demand in the south of the country. Currently, at times of peak demand, it is common to suffer shortages and blackouts that greatly harm the quality of life and the economy of the region’s inhabitants. Furthermore, both during the installation process and during its lifetime, this offshore park will serve as a decisive boost to local employment and trade. To facilitate the construction process of the new Ca Mau 1 wind farm -the second in the region, along with Tan Thuan, with a generating capacity of 75 MW- the construction company, Vietnam Construction and Trading Corporation, has called on the international experience of Sarens, a world reference in heavy lifting, engineering transport and crane rental, for the lifting, assembly and loading of the different modules that make up each wind turbine, which works are currently being carried out in the international port of Long An, before being transported to their final location. For these tasks, Sarens has chosen, from its large fleet of available models, different crane units to meet the highest quality and safety standards, which have been moved from different points to the work location in order to optimize the assembly process. The models chosen include the Liebherr LR 1350/1-LN, Kobelco CKE4000C, Sumitomo SCX-2800-2, Liebherr AC200-1, Sany SCC1500-C, and Sany SCC1000. Sarens owns extensive international experience in the assembly and maintenance of wind farms. It has participated in installations in countries such as South Africa, where it took part in the Karusa and Soetwater plant projects; in Sweden, at the Markbygden wind farm; or more recently, in the transport work for the foundation bases of the new offshore wind farm in Saint Brieuc, off the French Brittany coast, where it has been able to transport loads of more than 1,150 tons.