There are some truly fascinating insurance claim stories in the world of construction. This article reviews some interesting cases to show how creative people can be with insurance claims when something goes wrong on a job site. Insurance policies provide liability coverage and protect contractors from the financial effect of natural disasters and accidents caused by negligence. Commercial auto, general liability, business interruption, workers’ compensation, etc., are all several types of business insurance policies that can protect contractors from common claims. However, there are some unusual claims most construction policy covers that you may not be aware of. We bring you some of these claims below: Ever imagined getting bitten by a rat? It seems most unlikely unless your hand is made of cheese or you left them in a rat hole for long. But this happened! An electrician working in the basement of a building claimed to have been bitten by a rat while carrying out electrical work. He eventually filed a claim and received workers’ compensation. Although workers’ compensation insurance policies cover work-related injuries or sickness, no one ever thought it would come from a rat bite. Third-party injury or property damage due to workplace negligence or mistakes is common in construction projects. Thus, contractors must be tidy, focused, and careful while working. Falling objects, a fall from height, and other accidents pose huge health and financial risks. While it’s impossible to avoid accidents totally, one can mitigate them. A roofing contractor failed to mitigate an accident occurrence and got nailed for it. The contractor was working on a client’s roof and unknowingly dropped a roofing nail. Eventually, the homeowner claimed to have stepped on the nail, and it damaged the sole of her favorite shoe. She filed a property damage claim, and the contractor’s insurance company paid. When a roofing contractor was climbing a ladder to fix a client’s roof, he never knew he was going up to a claim! Property damage and bodily injuries aren’t the only cause of construction claims. Looking or not looking can be expensive. While the roofer was fixing a roof, he heard something like a sudden sound of music and looked in the direction. It turned out a neighbor was having her dance rehearsal in what she described as her. “private place” She sued the roofer for privacy intrusion, claiming she suffered a mental and emotional breakdown after she discovered he was staring at her practicing. The construction industry is one of the fields prone to constant claims and lawsuits. You can easily be sued for whatever oversights or mistakes. Some claims are justified, while others are as ridiculous as they sound. A construction company had sent two of their staff to carry out a minor repair on the building after careful inspection. The task involves using noisy equipment. Thus, the workers opted to come when everyone must have left home for one thing or another. A man claimed they disturbed his sleep while working due to the equipment’s sound. He had only returned from work and decided to rest before preparing for his next shift. Apparently, he filed a claim against the insurance company for mental stress, claiming the noise didn’t allow him to sleep and affected his work productivity. Construction projects don’t necessarily have to be from the ground up. It could also be renovation or remodeling. In this case, the homeowner decided against hiring a professional painter and decided to flex her creative side instead. She left the room, leaving a can of paint open while remodeling her house, which turned out to be a big mistake. Her dog somehow got its tail into the paint can and wagged the paint throughout the house haphazardly. She had her insurance policy to bank on, and the insurance company paid for the damages. A lot of ridiculous claims can stem from a construction site which makes it vital for general contractors and other construction workers to have appropriate insurance coverage as protection against financial risks. If you feel these claims are ridiculous, check out other unbelievable ones outside large construction projects below: Homeowners insurance covers theft, fire, and other damage that happens to your home. However, no one would’ve ever thought a burglar would be a million-dollar richer from breaking into his victim’s garage in his absence. A couple went away on a week’s vacation. During this vacation, a burglar broke into their home and tried leaving through the garage, but he was trapped in the garage because the door opener was faulty. He was trapped there for a week, feeding on only soda and dog food (the only edibles in there). When the couple came back, he immediately filed a claim against the house owner for mental anguish. He got $1 million from his claim. You can always tailor your insurance policy to protect you and your assets from unforeseen circumstances and ridiculous claims. Always inquire about your coverage limits and the options you have from your insurance company. Working with a reputable insurance agency like ContractorsLiability.com can help you get the best policy to offer you full coverage at a good premium. Moreover, they specialize in insurance for the construction industry and will also give you a quote in just 5 minutes. Feel free to contact one of their knowledgeable agents and discuss your protection plan for your business.