To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Following the Government’s approval of the £13.9 million funding as part of the Towns Fund program, plans to build a new railway station in Cheadle have been given the all clear. Also part of the plan is an eco-business park, and improved walking and cycling routes. The Cheadle Town Board is now celebrating after working diligently for two and a half years to secure the £13.9 million of the Government’s Towns Fund for three transformative projects in Cheadle. The funding for a new rail station in Cheadle receiving approval comes first on the list. This historic event is the result of extensive consultation with the neighborhood’s residents, the general public, businesses, and numerous rail industry partners. A purposeful north-south walking and cycling path connecting Cheadle to its High Street and the proposed station will complement the Station. Additionally, Cheadle will gain from money from the Towns Fund to support the construction of a new Eco Business Park on Bird Hall Lane as part of promoting green growth. Read Also: Plans in for Development of Marine Lake Events Centre in Southport, England This will open up new business opportunities and spur the growth of jobs in industrial buildings that are modern, high-quality, and equipped with cutting-edge eco technology to reduce their carbon footprint and produce local energy. “We have worked tirelessly to bring this investment into Cheadle to help release its fantastic potential,” said Sharon Seville, interim chair of the Cheadle Town Board. Even though there are still more obstacles to overcome, we are all eagerly anticipating the implementation of these revolutionary projects in the upcoming years. I’m especially enthusiastic about the possibilities a new eco-business park will bring to the borough and the sustainable model it might establish for upcoming construction. Cllr. Mark Hunter, the leader of Stockport Council, continued, “The Council has supported these projects from the beginning, and it is wonderful to see that we can begin to turn ideas into reality. I believe that the entire community of Stockport will profit from these projects for many years to come. 