To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Plans for a Marine Lake Events Centre in Southport, England, have been submitted by Sefton Council. The major development will offer a 1,200-capacity modern theatre area, café, and signature restaurant. Additionally, it will provide a conference and exhibition center capable of accommodating a variety of events. Also included are modern water and light show installation on the Marine Lake, dubbed ‘The Light Fantastic’. The plan for the Marine Lake Events Centre in Southport was created by AFL Architects, building on HOK’s initial concepts. In May, CGIs that depicted how the final design would appear were released. The project team also consists of the civil engineer Aecom, the venue consultant IPW, and the project manager and cost consultant Gardiner & Theobald. The application follows a dialogue and council debate as to the future of the Southport Theatre & Convention Centre complex and marine lake, as Sefton attempts to build on Southport’s under-promoted waterfront assets. Read Also: Construction planned for new Vaux neighborhood at Riverside Sunderland The MLEC is projected to increase tourism in Southport by over 500,000 visitors annually. Additionally, it will contribute £18 million to the local economy. However, this is only if the planning request is granted. “Feedback from our recent consultation showed that 84 percent of residents and key stakeholders are just as passionate about the Marine Lake Events Centre as we are,” said Cllr Marion Atkinson, a Labour cabinet member for regeneration and skills on Sefton Council. “These captivating and cutting-edge designs will aid in luring a wide variety of top-notch events to the town all year long. The general public is aware of our goals, which include enhancing Southport’s cultural offerings and visitor economy. These will ultimately support neighborhood businesses and boost spending. The Marine Lake Events Centre in Southport project will receive £33.3 million from Southport’s £37 million Town Deal program. Furthermore, £22.3 million will be granted by the Liverpool City Region Combined Authority. The theater complex was taken over by the council in 2020 after its operating company went into liquidation.