After 15 years of construction under Related Construction, the Grand LA hotel has been completed in Los Angeles. The US$1 billion project containing a hotel, residences, and retail stores, was designed by Frank Gehry, a renowned architect. The 28-story Conrad hotel in the Los Angeles hilltop complex debuts on July 6. On July 15, the first residents moved into a nearby 45-story apartment building. In between the two buildings, there will be a mall-like area with shops and restaurants that opens in 2023. From Gehry’s aluminum-clad Walt Disney Concert Hall, which houses the Los Angeles Philharmonic, Grand LA rises across Grand Avenue. The Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, the Broad Art Museum, the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art, and the Colburn School, a music and dance school, are some of the nearby cultural hotspots. Also Read: SoLa Vermont Apartment Complex Construction in Los Angeles Begins The 305 rooms of the Hilton-owned Conrad start at about $510 per night. Menus for the hotel’s airy cafes that flow out onto outdoor terraces with vistas spanning from Disney Hall to City Hall were prepared by celebrity chef Jose Andres. Executives from related companies refuted claims that the project strengthens the neighborhood’s reputation as an exclusive enclave. The top 15 stories of the 436 rental units contain opulent penthouses. 89 units on the lower levels are set aside for tenants with low and moderate incomes; this is desirable housing in a city where rising housing costs have emerged as a major political concern. In return for providing land for the Broad museum and paying $57 million to the neighborhood’s Grand Park, a public park that slopes down four blocks to City Hall, Related gained the rights to develop the property, a former parking lot, in 2007. During a project tour this week, Related Executive Vice President Rick Vogel, who oversaw the Grand LA development, stated, “This is the largest concentration of performance and visual arts facilities anywhere in the US.” Phoebe Yee, an executive vice president of Related, remarked, “It’s a space to greet the community and be part of the music hall.”