To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Construction has begun in the second phase of the Los Angeles Evermont mixed-use project. The project will add 180 affordable homes and new retail space to South Los Angeles’ northeast corner of Vermont and Manchester avenues. The aforementioned neighborhood has long been disenfranchised and under-resourced. The land has been unoccupied and derelict since the civil revolt in 1992. The 4.1-acre project for seniors and families is being built by developers BRIDGE Housing. The Coalition for Responsible Community Development (CRCD), and Primestor Development are also a part of the team. The Los Angeles Evermont also includes retail establishments, a transportation plaza, and a Metro training center. The construction of the Los Angeles Evermont mixed-use project is expected to be finished in 2024. The residential component will be divided into two sub-components, i.e Vista@Evermont and Luminus@Evermont. For elders who have endured chronic homelessness, Vista@Evermont’s residential component will provide 62 units with permanent supportive housing. Affordable housing with comprehensive social, mental health, and behavioral support is known as permanent supportive housing. Also Read: The Mark Multifamily Residential Complex Construction in Los Angeles to Begin Soon 118 low-cost houses for low-income families will be available at Luminus@Evermont, along with 60 additional units of long-term supportive housing. Target will be the main tenant. The retailer will occupy more than 64,000 square feet of additional ground-floor commercial space being added by Primestor. Los Angeles Evermont was created by TCA Architects and Walker Consultants. The general contractor is Suffolk. Additionally, Cumming Group, a construction consultant, is in charge of supervision and project management. Remarks and the project team Los Angeles County Supervisor Holly J. Mitchell stated in a statement that “getting to the construction level has been a herculean effort and real partnership that highlights the power in public-private partners.” Two of the companies backing Jordan Downs, a sizable public housing development in South Los Angeles that also aids low- to moderate-income households, are BRIDGE Housing and Primestor. 710 residential apartments, more than 120,000 square feet of retail space, and a 50,000 square foot community center will all be a part of the finished project. 