To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Plans have been announced for the construction of a Hilton Hotel at Nashville International Airport (BNA). The hotel will be built by Chartwell Hospitality in collaboration with Rockbridge. The former is a fully integrated real estate company. It specializes in the acquisition, development, and management of high-quality, branded limited-service, and full-service hotels. Rockbridge, on the other hand, is a private investment firm investing in and building brands since 1999. The proposed Hilton Hotel building will provide travelers with a higher standard of service and convenience. Additionally, it will provide new employment opportunities and boost the local economy in Nashville. Furthermore, the hotel will contribute to the rise of BNA as one of the nation’s top airports. The New Hilton Hotel at Nashville International Airport will be the first and only hotel on MNAA land located at the terminal door of the airport. It will also be the highest structure at BNA. Also Read: Implementation of Nashville Metro Supportive Housing Project in Tennessee Commences Beginning on July 1, 2022, vertical development on the Hilton site will provide hundreds of construction jobs. Around 150 full-time positions will be offered after it opens. The hotel will include 292 rooms and 1,600 square feet of conference space. There will be a rooftop pool and a Sky Bar with a special view of the Nashville airport. On the top level, a sizable fitness center is situated to make use of the views as well. Travelers may enjoy coffee, beverages, and meals before flights in the hotel’s café, lobby bar, and full-service restaurant. “Chartwell Hospitality gives meticulous consideration to each property we create. We ensure that all municipal and industry requirements are followed and that every amenity is well thought out. Our expertise in meticulously completing properties of this caliber has encouraged us to expand our development at airports, in urban areas, and beyond. We are pleased to collaborate with the Metropolitan Nashville Airport Authority, and we look forward to seeing how this property benefits visitors. Will Schaedle, executive vice president of Chartwell Hospitality, expressed his excitement for the cooperation with Rockbridge and the continuation of his company’s engagement with them. The project’s general contractor is Crain Construction.