To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video The Agenda 111 Hospital project at Afransi in the Central Region’s Gomoa Central District, Ghana, is ongoing rapidly toward completion, in order to fulfill the contract’s 18-month time. In order to address the growing medical needs of the residents of the Gomoa Central District and beyond, three contracting companies are currently on-site and working tirelessly. Read also:Construction of Multi-Facilitated Hospital in Agortime Ziope, Ghana, Begins Mark Dons Construction Company Limited, Top Engineering Construction Company Limited, and China State Haulong Construction Ghana Limited are the contractors. Mr. Ebenezer Arthur, foreman of one of the company’s, said that the construction work was going on smoothly and quickly. This is taking place as expected  because the government had provided adequate funding to meet the deadline. According to Mr. Arthur, the project’s footing work was almost concluded and that it would move on to floor level so they could begin the actual work and stick to the 18-month timeframe set by the government. He claimed that in and around Gomoa Afransi, the district headquarters of Gomoa Central, artisans, including masons, carpenters, steel burners, electricians, and non-artisans, who were mostly women, sold food and other products to boost economic activity. After visiting the construction site, Mr. Benjamin Kojo Otoo, Gomoa Central District Chief Executive (DCE), said that when the Agenda 111 hospital project at Afransi is working, it will hire additional nurses and paramedics. According to the DCE, the facility will address emergency referral cases that initially went to Breman Asikuma Hospital, Trauma Hospital in Winneba, and Agona Swedru Municipal Government Hospital. He claimed that the Assembly’s upgrades to the Gomoa Aboso and Gomoa Ekwamkrom Community-based Health Planning and Services (CHPS) Compounds have been finalized in order to accommodate the growing population’s demand for access to quality healthcare. The DCE stated that the polyclinic at Gomoa Abonyin was nearly completed and that a doctor, nurses, and paramedical staff would be posted to the healthcare facility to provide the community with access to high-quality health coverage.