Please enable JavaScript Following the announcement of its investment partner by the project’s developer, the long-awaited Coventry City Centre South regeneration project appears to be on track. According to Shearer Property Group, the Hill Group was chosen as its development and financing partner for the massive retail, leisure, and residential project that will completely revamp Coventry’s downtown. The development company behind the £450m regeneration project, Shearer Property Regen Ltd (SPR), claims that the Hill Group has made a “significant investment” in it. According to the plans, a portion of the city center will be demolished to make room for the project. City Centre South received preliminary planning approval in April 2021. The developers will now cooperate with Coventry City Council. Thus, they submit a number of detailed planning applications with the goal of breaking ground in the summer of 2023. Coventry has experienced a revitalization with more than £750 million invested in a variety of private and public initiatives. Read Also: Work to commence on Phase 2 of BBC Television Centre in London’s White City The project includes a significant upgrade to Coventry Railway Station and the opening of the Wave indoor water park. Also included is the construction of the first 300,000 square feet of brand-new Grade A offices. The offices will be part of the Friargate Business District. Along with new lighting, plants, and water features, the city center has also undergone a transformation. The developers of City Centre South claim that Coventry, the eleventh-largest city in the UK, will soon have a cutting-edge city center to be proud of. City Centre South’s plans, which will establish a brand-new residential, retail, and entertainment destination, are currently being finalized. The builders claim that it will have a wide range of retail, hospitality, leisure, and medical facilities. They have pledged it will be designed to attract people back into the city to live, work and play. This includes graduate students from Coventry University and the University of Warwick.