To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Construction has begun on a 600 South Tryon tower, as part of the 10-acre Legacy Union mixed-use development in Charlotte. Lincoln Harris is working alongside its long-time partner, Goldman Sachs Asset Management on the new 24-story office building. In addition to the three existing office buildings on the property, this will be the fourth tower occupying 415,000-square-feet. The other three towers on the Legacy Union property currently total over 1.5 million square feet of office space. But after 600 South Tryon reaches completion by late 2024, up to 2 million square feet will be available. The entire mixed-use development is situated at the former site of The Charlotte Observer building in North Carolina. It encompasses the 33-story Bank of America tower, 23-story Honeywell HQ office buildings, and an 18-story 650 Tryon office tower. Also Read US$ 400M Lawrence Office Tower Set to Break Ground in Denver, Colorado The top four floors of the 600 South Tryon tower have already been leased out. Making a total of 102,000 square feet, to be occupied by Law firm Robinson Bradshaw upon completion. Besides the featured office spaces, up to 20,000 square feet of ground-floor retail spaces will be available as well. Amenities featured in the tower include podium parking, co-working and fitness spaces, along with terraces providing outdoor access. In addition, the campus provides a street-level public plaza, along with green spaces surrounding all office buildings on the property. 600 South Tryon is designed by LS3P, the same architectural firm responsible for the visual concept of 650 South Tryon. The tower will have a glass design, similar to the existing glass Deloitte sister tower positioned on its left. In addition to the fancy design, the tower also incorporates several ESG elements and safety features such as touchless building entry. The developers are hoping to attain LEED certification standards. Construction on the 600 South Tryon officer tower will be overseen by Gilbane, who also worked on the other towers. While the leasing arrangement will be handled by Ridr Knowlton and Campbell Walker of Lincoln Harris