Please enable JavaScript As a warehouse manager, finding suitable shelving solutions enables you to have an easier time locating your items, conducting effortless inventory, and ensuring safety in moving products within the warehouse. A pallet racking system should be your go-to choice if you run a warehouse that stocks many physical goods. It’s among the most used warehouse storage options. Pallet racks come in different styles, such as the adjustable pallet racking, which can accommodate either the Very Narrow Aisle (VNA) or double deep configuration. Another style is the compact system, which can be either driven-in or driven-through by a forklift. Other popular styles include the live storage for pallets and mobile pallet racking system. This guide fills you in on the general dynamics of pallet racking installation and maintenance: A complete pallet racking system must have all the requisite components to adequately hold all weights and sizes of goods in your warehouse. A reliable supplier should advise you on the appropriate measures depending on your products. They should also assure you that their parts have undergone the required testing in certified laboratories to ascertain their structural capabilities. You wouldn’t want to install a flimsy rack that’ll crumble when loaded to capacity. Below are the essential parts you must have in your pallet racking system:   Here are some handy installation tips to ensure your pallet racking project is successful: You can ask a reputable manufacturer such as Bowen Storage to come and assess the interior of your pallet racking warehouse before purchasing the components. In this manner, they’ll make the pallets according to your needs and space. You can install pallet racking on your own, but since it’s a technical undertaking, delegating the task to professionals with the necessary expertise is advisable. Request the supplier to do the installations since they know best how their pallet racking systems work. As a result, you can have robust racks that can serve you for a long time without crumbling down and potentially harming your staff. Purchasing a racking system probably costs a lot of money, and you’d want to ensure every component is intact. While at it, check if there’s any damage to any parts. After assuring that every component is delivered and intact, you should read the manufacturer’s instructions keenly, i.e., if you’re doing the installations yourself. That way, you’ll know how the different pieces fit together and how to handle the pointy and heavy parts to avoid accidents. Decide on the number of levels and bays you need and start the assembly. Start with the vertical supports and beams. Then, place baseplates and special anchors to protect them. Work down the aisle until the whole rack row is fixed. Lastly, include the shelf equipment and column protectors. Finally, after installation, you’ll still need to take necessary measures such as regular maintenance to ensure the pallet racking doesn’t get damaged or cause any accidents. Some of the maintenance precautions you can undertake are: You can train your staff on how to do their daily loading and unloading of products carefully without causing any impact on the shelves. Even minor bumping can loosen the bolts over time and result in accidents. Regularly cleaning is an essential aspect of warehouse management. For one, it can help prevent rusting, especially when liquids spill on the metal. Also, it keeps pests away, which is crucial for food products. You should organize an inspection of the whole racking system at least once or twice a year. This way, you can detect problems early enough and prevent catastrophic accidents in the future. Ensure there’s plenty of room for movement within the warehouse. It prevents moving equipment from bumping into the pallet racks and compromising their structural integrity and aesthetic appeal. Proper pallet racking installation and maintenance ensure a long-lasting shelving solution in your warehouse. Your winning point is working with professionals who’ve installed several similar racking systems for other businesses. They can guarantee you high-quality installation. You’ll also benefit a lot from their technical advice and expertise.