To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video The constriction of the Ogun international cargo airport in Nigeria is near completion according to Ogun State administration. The completion of the airport will allow for the facility’s operation no later than the end of 2022. According to the administration of the current governor, Dapo Abiodun, a runway, fire station, and control tower are nearing completion. The state commissioner for information and strategy, Abdulwaheed Odusile, on the other hand recently said at a media briefing at the airport that the control tower, the administrative building, and the 4-kilometer runway are the essential parts of an airport and are almost ready. He added that the construction on the fire station is also ongoing. According to Iduse,not only were they constructing an airport but also an aerotropolis. He said that they were bringing several people. The commissioner stated that the airport will handle agricultural freight. However, he added that there is a different facility for passenger operations. Speaking of some of the airport’s features, he stated that there will be an international testing facility there where all agricultural products from Nigeria will be certified to meet international standards. Once that is completed, he claimed, goods from there can be exported anywhere in the world. The Nigeria Air Force, the Nigeria Customs Service, and several other private investors, are some of the government departments already racing to be at the airport. The proposal to establish a cargo airport in Ogun State is a brain child offormer governor Gbenga Daniel. In 2007 the governor mention that the proposal would be a way to attract business and investment and to make the most of the state’s proximity to Lagos. The former governor selected Ilishan-Remo, close to Sagamu, as his preferred location and commenced the preparations after receiving all the necessary permits from the federal ministry of aviation and the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). However, he was unable to complete the tasks on time for his tenure to end.