To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video A massive Seaport16 Trade Center industrial project is currently underway near the Port of Savannah in Bryan County. This development is taking place on a 797-acre property, which was purchased last December by the Atlanta-based developer, ROOKER. Following the region’s high demand for industrial spaces, the developer aims to provide about 7,100,000-square-feet of new space. According to ROOKER, the Seaport16 Trade Center could accommodate up to 10 Class-A buildings in the 7,100,000-square-foot space.  ROOKER’s CEO, John Rooker mentioned that the project would address their tenants’ requests for larger buildings and parking areas. Going forward, Rooker expects such trends to continue as the population of the Southeastern U.S. increases over time. Also Read Gateway Grand industrial Project Breaks Ground in Arizona The multi-phased Seaport16 Trade Center project will serve to attract distributors and manufacturers seeking close access to the Port. Starting with the  868,160-square-foot building 1, the project’s initial phase will offer up to 1,600,000-square-feet of space. Construction on Building 1 is expected to reach completion by 2023. Rooker’s V.P of real estate, Cason Bufe, spoke on the Seaport16 Trade Center’s potential in the region. He pointed out that it was quite difficult finding sites like this in Savannah to accommodate large buildings. Stating that the vacancy rate for this development was the lowest he had seen in his entire career. Ideally situated, 5 miles from the future Hyundai plant, the new park is also likely to accommodate Hyundai suppliers. The Chairman for the Development Authority of Bryan County, Jon Seagraves, commended Rooker for starting construction on its first building. He said the Seaport16 Trade Center would bring more projects to the region driven by the Port’s rapid growth. Furthermore, Seagraves also mentioned that such buildings would make Bryan County into a more competitive place from a speed-to-market perspective. The team working on the Seaport16 Trade Center project includes Thomas & Hutton serving as the civil engineer. Followed by POH Architects, who are responsible for architectural design, and Morgan Corp. serving as the site work contractor. Mal Hill at Solution Property Group is in charge of marketing the available spaces.