To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Construction at 2711 Georgia Avenue for a five-story Oliver mixed-use building near the Howard University campus is underway. The 140,000-square-foot structure will have 93 completely furnished homes. There will be a lounge area and a terrace that overlooks the campus. Additionally, a commercial space that the university has rented will be available. The $62 million facility is developed in partnership between Rock Creek Property Group and Howard University. It was created by a group that included GTM Architects of Washington. Howard University students will reportedly have access to internships, scholarships, and real estate development courses throughout the project. At least 10% of the project’s equity will come from minority-owned companies. At least 35% of the contractors and consultants will be Certified Business Entities. They must have a D.C. headquarters and satisfy specific requirements in order to be given precedence for business opportunities. Also Read: Construction underway for 160-unit multifamily building at Iron Bridge Office Campus, Washington Graduate students, recent Howard University graduates, and other locals without ties to the school are projected to live in the Oliver. To make life simpler for individuals relocating to the city or transferring out of dormitories, the apartments will be completely furnished. Work and study nooks, a hospitality desk, and lounge chairs are all featured in the Oliver’s lobby. An indoor lounge with arcade games, a fitness center, and a work center with a conference room, private office spaces, and shared workstations are all located on the top floor of the building, which also has access to a deck. The Office of Development and Alumni Relations, the Office of University Communications, and other administrative offices will be housed in the commercial portion of the building, which will be wholly leased by Howard University. Parking will be available underground as well. In 2024, the Oliver is expected to be finished.