11111 Jefferson mixed-use project implementation has begun. The project developers 3MR Capital and The John Buck Company have already begun preparation works at the project’s site. The site is a 3.4-acre land located at the junction of Sepulveda, Jefferson, and Machado Avenues, in Culver City, California. It was previously occupied by a post office. Designed by AO architects, the US$ 210M development is a five-story building. It features 11,450 square feet of office space and 55,000 square feet of retail and commercial space. The office space will be situated on the second level while the retail and commercial space will be located on the ground floor. Also Read: Construction of Parcel F, a Residential Scheme in San Francisco, California, Begins There will also be 230 studio, one, two, and three-bedroom apartments. These will be located above the 55,000 square feet of ground-floor retail and commercial space. Parking will be available for 653 automobiles at the building. A 30,000 square-foot public park with views of Machado Road and a 13,000 square-foot courtyard would also be included. The modern podium-type building has a setback above its second level that would provide inhabitants with open space. The Culver City City Council authorized the designs for the 11111 Jefferson mixed-use development last year. In accordance with the agreement approving the construction of this building, the developers will set aside 19 units for extremely low-income families to rent. Furthermore, despite being privately owned the development will have certain outdoor areas open to the public. The designer of the record is wHY Architecture. The developers gave Culver City’s administration a deadline for the development, and thus far everything has progressed according to that schedule. The project is expected to take 26 months to complete. Work would therefore start in the second quarter of 2022 and end in the third quarter of 2024. The buildings on the property are now being destroyed in preparation for the actual construction works.