To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video In order to carry out the Esiama water supply system project in Ghana, for the Esiama community and its surroundings in the Western Region, the Canadian government has started talks with the Ghanaian government. This was revealed recently during a courtesy call by the Canadian Ambassador to Ghana, Katie Csaba, to the Minister of Sanitation and Water Resources (MSWR), Ms. Cecilia AbenaDapaah. The project aims to improve the supply of potable water in the catchment area, consequently improving residents’ quality of life and meeting their demands for health and sanitation. Read also:First Phase of Kiffa Drinking Water Supply Project in Mauritania Secures Funding No related posts. Accordingt to Mrs. Csaba the Canadian Commercial Corporation (CCC) would accept the risk of contracting a Canadian supplier to implement the project. This, she claimed, would ensure that the receiving government would not be required to engage in direct negotiations with the company. The government of Ghana would partner with the government of Canada directly after the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) is signed, not with the project executors, according to Mrs. Csaba. Since the Esiama water supply system project will be carried out by the Canadian government through a commercial partnership, she said that the program seems significantly less risky than going directly to a company to offer these services. According to Csaba, Canada has over the years improved latrines and water facilities, supplied drinking water, and made contributions to the Northern region of the country. She stated that her country had delivered water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) services to households in eight different regions of the country, saying that this was done to aid low-income households in purchasing latrines with their payments spread out over a longer period. The Canadian ambassador claimed that her organization still receives funding from water aid, which has aided 25 healthcare facilities in the Upper East Region with water and sanitation, particularly for newborns and medical personnel.