To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video The start of the construction of Artemas mid-rise apartment community in Everett, Massachusetts has been announced. LMC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lennar Corporation LEN and a leader in apartment development and management made the announcement. The project is one of LMC’s first two communities in the Boston market, joining Harper in the prestigious Allston academic district. It will bring a total of 396 residential units and 1,500 square feet of retail space to Everett. Residents will be close to all of Everett’s attractions, including its many festivals, trails, rivers, entertainment choices, and popular nightlife scene. Numerous breweries and distilleries are located in the neighbourhood, which is affectionately known as the Fermentation District. Also Read: 99,831 SF Six-Story Apartment Building Construction Begins in Boston, Massachusetts Axe throwing, rock climbing, an indoor trampoline park, and the Northern Strand Community Trail are just a few of the activity-based entertainment choices close to Artemas, which is located at 65 Norman Street. The Malden River’s Village Landing Park and RiverGreen Park, as well as the Wasgott and Sacramone playgrounds, are all accessible by foot from the neighbourhood. Numerous foreign restaurants can be found in the area, while Night Shift Brewing, Bone Up Brewing, and Short Path Distillery provide locally brewed alcoholic beverages. Residents of Artemas will also benefit from convenient access to the surrounding area through I-93 and Route 1, which travel south to Downtown Boston or north to Medford and Revere Beach. Additionally, the MBTA bus lines and Orange Line T (Wellington Station) are both easily accessible from the area. A Bluebike bike-share station located on-site makes it simpler to access the neighbourhood. “The resident experience at Artemas will be designed to capture and enhance the adventurous spirit that exists in Everett, a location where individuals can actually enjoy life to the fullest. We’re thrilled to offer tenants top-notch residences and facilities in a community that already has so much to offer. Moreover, we’re excited to launch LMC in the Boston Metropolitan Area with our sister community, Harper Dan Lee,” the division president for LMC’s New England area, remarked.