To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video A US$ 43M Colorado Rural structural development project is set to commence for 17 structurally deficient rural bridges in Southeastern Colorado. CDOT (Colorado Department of Transportation) is working alongside the CapitalTezak Joint Venture to replace 17 structures in 3 distinct corridors. In this project, the corridors covered will include Colorado Highway 9, U.S Highway 24 and U.S Highway 350. Improvements planned for the $43 million Colorado Rural structural development are aimed at providing more stable bridges for motorists. Ultimately, providing motorists with the convenience of accessing durable and updated structures with up to a 100-year lifespan upon completion. The development plans  include the replacement of three structures on CO 9 between Cañon City and Alma. Another five structures will also be replaced on US 24 between Florissant and Antero Junction. Plus nine more structures which will be replaced along US 350 between La Junta and Trinida. Also Read US$122.7 mm design-build bridge construction project awarded, Utah Construction crews have already begun setting up construction equipment using available traffic impacts information in the region. But construction work on all 17 structures for the Colorado Rural structural development will not proceed at the same. For structures at the plains region (US 350), the construction crews will commence working on multiple structures simultaneously. While structures at the mountain regions (US 24/CO 9), will only have one structure worked on at a time. The  Colorado Rural structural development will begin this July, starting with a mountain region structure. This will be the first structure to be replaced and it will be located on the CO 9 corridor near Guffey. Afterwards, construction on three plains region structures will also begin this month on the US 350 corridor near Timpas. But overall, construction for all structures at the plains region are scheduled to run throughout the year. While those on the mountain region might pause during the winter months. The entire project is expected to be completed by late 2024. CDOT’s Executive Director, Shoshana Lew, also addressed several benefits of the Colorado Rural structural development. Taking into account, rural mobility, intra- and interstate commerce distribution, movement of agricultural products, and access to tourist destinations. Lew was hopeful that the improvements to these 17 structures would ensure trip reliability and safety for users in the future.