To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video AC systems, like most appliances, require regular tune-ups. These tune-ups are necessary because they ensure the AC can fight the summer heat. The need for maintenance is not only to prepare the AC for summer but to extend the unit’s life. Areas with higher temperatures during the summer will increase the system’s extensive use. For example,  AC repair in Katy, Texas, is needed more often than an AC repair in Sister Bay, Wisconsin. The weather, humidity, and the AC’s age all impact the tune-up process and how often it is needed. A check-up done on a timely basis will save you money, increase the lifespan of the AC, and ensure your health is not affected. Below is a list of items that technicians check during a AC System Tune-Up. The refrigerant is at the top of the AC System Tune-Up process checklist. This is a must because refrigerant leaks can damage the whole AC unit and affect your health. In addition, this coolant can be toxic, and many laws prohibit some types of refrigerants. During a tune-up, a technician can also check to see if your refrigerant needs to be replaced. All the components of the AC are essential and need to be checked periodically. A broken part can lead to the failure of the entire appliance or irreparable damages. It is essential to check the motor carefully because it is a complex part. The motor can be considered the heart of the AC unit. Like a car motor, if your AC motor fails, the unit won’t work. During the tune-up process, the parts will be checked separately beside the motor, taken out, and inspected. Some may have signs of usage, and it will be easier to replace them now than after they break and affect other parts. Another step in the tune-up process is the cleaning of the appliance. Cleaning is essential because dust will gather between the components and stick to filters. During the check-up, the tech will replace your filter. You should routinely replace your filters on your own for effective performance. An inspection of the electrical panel is included in maintenance. This connection requires a check-up because an electrical failure can burn the whole AC unit, and there will be nothing to be saved. It can also lead to damage to the house and its electrical circuits. Even if the unit doesn’t entirely fail, you may experience increased power consumption and higher bills. The compressor is an important part of each AC unit because it helps compress the refrigerant vapor. If this part breaks, it will lead to refrigerant leaks or a failing unit. A compressor tune-up requires special tools and knowledge. This is not a DIY job; it is a complex process. The fan check is also required to see if it’s loose, which can interrupt the speed. Tests are required for this part of the AC System Tune-Up process. The AC should be tested at different settings to see how the fan is working, whether it can handle the top speed, and is facilitating the cooling. The outdoor fan can be damaged by weather conditions like snow or rain. A replacement might be required, or it needs some cleaning to get off any rust or dirt it may have. During a tune-up, the technician may recommend other measures. The above steps are some of the most important because, without them, the damage to AC can be an expensive fix.