To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video The massive mixed-use redevelopment of the CoorsTek complex in downtown Golden has started with its first phase. The new neighbourhood, which spans five city blocks, will include 1.25 million square feet of office. Additionally, a multifamily residential, placemaking retail, and hotel space will be incorporated. The development will be centred by a new worldwide headquarters for CoorsTek, Inc. The first phase of the downtown Golden’s CoorsTek Complex redevelopment project involves stabilization of structures slated for restoration. In addition it includes the destruction of countless buildings, infrastructure planning, and the creation of numerous commercial structures, and their designs. According to the plans, nearly 275,000 square feet of new and adaptively reused office space will be developed. This is in addition to 10,000 square feet of restaurant and retail space, new 8th and 9th Street linkages through the site. Below-grade parking and a plaza will all be a part of the first phase when it is finished. Also Read: US$ 43M Colorado Rural structural development project implementation begins A district-wide net zero carbon and wellness plan will be used to implement large new public open spaces. Furthermore, the plan includes an arts district, cutting-edge transportation techniques, mixed-income housing, expanded retail, and a hotel in succeeding phases. The greatest redevelopment project in Golden’s history has been successfully steered by AC Development. Last month the Golden’s City Council’s unanimously adopted a comprehensive redevelopment plan and rezoning that favoured the downtown Golden’s CoorsTek Complex redevelopment project. The council vote marked the end of a lengthy process that lasted more than a year. The process included tight coordination with city officials, more than 100 community meetings, four sessions of the planning commission, and a six-hour council hearing. The official architect of the downtown Golden’s CoorsTek Complex redevelopment project is Tryba Architects.