To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Plans for construction of The Alberton in Manchester City Centre have been submitted by developer Bruntwood. The project is an innovative workspace and leisure building in the city. The developer plans to construct a striking 18-story office building that will house the UK’s highest rooftop swimming pool. It will be the replacement for the current Alberton House on St. Mary’s Parsonage. A crucial component of Bruntwood’s “workplace revolutionized” philosophy, the wellness center integrates physical and mental wellbeing into daily work activities. A hydrotherapy vitality pool, hot and cold treatment rooms, a fitness studio, a yoga terrace, a physio room, changing rooms, and showers will be included in addition to the performance lap pool. According to Ciara Keeling, CEO of Bruntwood Works, the Alberton is going to revolutionize workspaces. Thus it will not only be in Manchester but throughout the UK. “In order to promote a healthy work/life balance, this development supports integrating wellbeing into customers’ daily lives. This is clear from our plans to build a holistic wellbeing center that will serve as the development’s focal point and include a rooftop pool with expansive city views. Read Also: Former Daily Mail Printworks in Rotherhithe, England, to be Redeveloped into Offices We wanted to provide our customers with a space that meets their changing demands. Furthermore, it will help to promote a work atmosphere where they can thrive professionally as well as personally. This is because we understand that the way we work and live has changed for the long-term,”explained Keeling. The Alberton was designed by EPR Architects and is located on the original Manchester Gas Works site. The Alberton design team also includes RLB as cost consultants and employers agent, Hilson Moran as a variety of MEP and sustainability design services, and Curtins as a structural and civil engineer.