The construction sector is one of the biggest industries worldwide. Hundreds, if not thousands, of workers are moving up and down, side to side, to create structures for commercial, residential, and industrial uses daily. Unfortunately, it’s also one of the most inherently dangerous sectors. At least one worker is killed every 10 minutes in several ongoing construction projects worldwide, according to the International Labor Organization. This figure translates to over 60,000 deadly accidents annually. It makes accident risk management and safety an essential component of construction projects. That said, here’s how to minimize the risks of fatal or injury-causing mishaps during construction: Ideally, a risk assessment must be done before a project. However, since the project isn’t static, managers must continuously assess internal and external factors that may impact ongoing work. And because of the inherent dangers involved, all states require construction businesses to acquire a Certificate of Insurance. The most common risks involved are: Theft is also a common risk in construction sites because of the costly resources involved, such as generators, pieces of equipment and tools, and materials. Thus, besides strengthening occupational safety, the project manager must focus on on-site premises safety.  After identifying the risks and prioritizing the most probable hazards, identify your response to these potential occurrences. Identifying risks and response techniques are essential elements for preparing for a construction project. And they can be reviewed and revised depending on how the situation evolves. There are four ways to respond to different risk types. You may choose and use several tools to reduce the risks based on the identified risk response strategies. These days, using technology in construction has become the norm in most sites for efficiency and safety. Companies utilize different types of software for multiple purposes, such as data management, 3-D building design, and safety. Video surveillance systems can also boost security and safety compliance by keeping a good eye on the workers and spotting potential hazards nearby. These tools can also help deter thefts from raiding your project site. For legal and contractual matters, it’s best to consult with a lawyer to determine the best course of action. Don’t forget to create a contingency plan as a backup to your risk mitigation strategy. Note that things may not go as planned or predicted, so you must know how to deal with uncertainties. Applicable laws vary from state to state, and knowing the basics is crucial to project planners, managers, and safety officers. Apart from building codes and other regulations, it’s vital to understand and implement safety regulations as required by law and industry standards. On-site, safety protocols must be in place. Besides workers’ safety gear and surveillance cameras, other safety tools must be in place to enhance protection. These include proper lighting, alarm systems and signages, locks, fencing, and barriers. Access must also be appropriately controlled and managed. As mentioned, all states require construction companies to have insurance coverage. Protection must be for the following: There are other insurance types available depending on the project’s nature. Paying for insurance not only ensures your company won’t be fined but also helps preserve workers’ lives and ensure timely project completion. Managing risks in construction projects demands a proactive approach, where risks and mitigation planning must be done before the actual work. However, it’s not a one-time exercise; managers must periodically review, evaluate, and revise the strategies to optimize benefits and increase resiliency against all hazards.