To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video The 888-room Loews Arlington Hotel in Texas has finished construction. The new Arlington Convention Center and hotel rooms are part of the US$550 million project, which started in October. It has 66,000 square feet of outdoor gathering areas, including an event lawn, and 200,000 square feet of internal conference space. The hotel will have two swimming pools, a beach, cabanas, fire pits, and a water slide in addition to five dining and drinking establishments. The project was designed by Dallas architect HKS. They had decided on a third-party, Texas-based restaurant partner, Soy Cowboy, to offer a welcoming environment for customers, employees, and vendors. Also Read: US$ 27M Secured for Construction of Sheppard CDC in Texas With a pan-Asian menu that includes classic sushi, tempura, hibachi, and Korean BBQ, Soy Cowboy aims to provide food from China, Korea, Vietnam, Thailand, Japan, and other Asian countries. By building the hotel and convention center, which expands upon earlier developments like the Rangers’ Globe Life Field and Texas Live by Loews-Arlington, Loews Hotels & Co., the Texas Rangers, and The Cordish Companies are extending their public-private relationship with the city of Arlington. One Rangers Way, a residential neighborhood, and Spark Arlington, a collaborative workspace at Choctaw Stadium, both designed by The Cordish Companies, are further components of the development. “Loews Arlington will open as planned in the first quarter of 2024, and we remain confident in and committed to the city of Arlington,” said Jonathan Tisch, chairman and CEO of Loews Hotels & Co., adding that Arlington, Texas is already one of the top sports and entertainment destinations in the country. “We predict that once Loews Arlington opens, the city will also become a leading destination for meetings and events. The 300-room Live! by Loews hotel, which debuted in 2019, will be connected to the new Loews hotel.