To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Construction is set to begin on the new Dream Hotel and Casino located on Las Vegas Boulevards. The hotel will have 531 rooms spread across 20 floors. There will be a variety of distinctive eateries there, along with a 30,000-square-foot casino, a nightclub, and a ballroom. Also Read: Plans Announced for US$3bn Oak View Las Vegas Entertainment Complex There will be a conference room, 825 parking spaces, and several additional amenities. The hotel will concentrate on providing a boutique-style experience and is noticeably smaller than nearby competing locations. Construction was originally scheduled to begin in early 2021, however, the project encountered a number of obstacles. The COVID-19 pandemic briefly prevented the construction lender from providing finance, which caused a several-month delay in the start of the construction activities. Shopoff Realty Investments and Contour ultimately got regulatory permission in October 2021 after going through a number of design revisions. The hotel gave up its pool club on the ninth level and all of its airport-facing balconies in order to comply with TSA requirements. Additionally, the entire structure was shifted a little bit nearer to the Strip. The modifications are meant to avoid incidents like the one in 2017 when a shooter lodging at Mandalay Bay massacred 60 people while the Route 91 Harvest festival was in progress. Before firing on the crowd, the man was able to shatter the window of his hotel room without being noticed. “We’re adding roughly 1,200 new construction employment in addition to an additional 2,000 off-site project-related positions. The community will benefit much from it, and we are really enthusiastic about it,” said Ross Edwards, senior vice president of McCarthy Building Companies. Edwards also revealed that the Dream Hotel and Casino would become a new landmark in Las Vegas. Bill Shopoff, president of Shopoff Realty Investments, also commented on the project. He said, “Covid didn’t really slow us down. We had to engage with the airport authority and with their fears and anxieties, they were excellent to deal with. Commissioner Gibson was a star in providing great leadership to assist us to navigate through that process.”