A pre-application planning consultation for the initial stage of Aston Villa Football Club‘s Villa Park expansion project has begun. The entire Villa Park project in Birmingham will run about £100 million. An upgraded Trinity Stand is connected to a brand-new North Stand as part of the first phase. As a result, the stadium’s capacity will rise to more than 50,000.  Plans will also include a brand-new commercial destination venue and community space called Villa Live. The first phase of the improvements’ construction is anticipated to begin in 2023. Up until 2025, the entire Villa Park expansion project will be ongoing. In order to get the opinions of local citizens and businesses, the pre-planning application consultation consists of a survey and a number of community drop-in sessions. The findings will be applied to the planning application and design development that the club will submit later this summer. Read Also: Rotterdam Central Library in the Netherlands Set for Renovation CEO of Aston Villa, Christian Purslow, stated: “We are thrilled to share our vision for Villa Park. Afterwards, it will become a world-class sporting venue and thriving community destination. We want to involve the local community, supporters, and organizations in shaping the next chapter in Villa Park’s illustrious history, so it is crucial that we get their feedback. Stadiums need to be upgraded for the club to meet the rising demand. By improving the hospitality options available at Villa Park, we hope to improve the matchday experience and develop a venue for year-round entertainment that will serve the needs of the neighbourhood as well as our supporters.” “Our plan demonstrates the phased approach to the Villa Park expansion project, taking into account each stand separately. Furthermore, it identifies the improvements required to cause the least amount of disruption to the neighbourhood. In order to ensure that our design proposals are in line with Birmingham’s “Big City Plan” for 2040, we are closely collaborating with Birmingham City Council, the West Midlands Combined Authority, and other important stakeholders.” The Club is also in discussions with all the pertinent authorities about strategic upgrades to the area’s transportation system. This would be required to support the redeveloped Villa Park.