To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video Construction on a  2.1-million-square-foot Gateway Grand industrial project in Mesa, Arizona has commenced. The Class-A industrial development is taking place on a 155-acre property in Mesa’s foreign trade zone, originally called Unbound Gateway. The project developer, Greystar Real Estate Partners, purchased the $43.7 million property from Unbound Development. The property was renamed earlier this year. According to Greystar’s managing director, Billy Cundiff, Gateway Grand will be the company’s first  Class-A industrial project in Arizona. Its location is just south of the Phoenix-Mesa Gateway Airport and adjacent to a planned extension by Union Pacific Railroad. As a result, future tenants would enjoy easy access to the airport, freeways, and planned railroad extension. In addition, all qualified companies acquiring spaces on the property can also leverage the city’s Foreign Trade Zone. Thereby, enabling them to receive incentives such as reduced or deferred tariffs and duties, and reduced property taxes. Gateway Grand is intended to be a two-phased development consisting of three industrial buildings in total. Designed as a speculative industrial project, the park will offer spacious units suitable for large-scale manufacturers like pharmaceutical or EV industries. In Phase I, two 500,000-square-foot buildings are to be developed, which are scheduled for completion by May 2023. Afterward, phase II will commence with the construction of a single building, spanning over 1 million square feet. Also Read US$ 4.8M Caldwell Industrial Park to be Developed in Ohio, United States Gateway Grand will feature amenities suitable for users in need of industrial spaces for assembly or warehouse distribution. These spaces will include 40-foot Ceiling Heights and 7-inch Concrete Slabs, which enables users to make use of heavy machinery. The development team for Gateway Grand includes the Phoenix-based Derek Builders, serving as the builder and General contractor. While Deutsch Architecture Group will stand in as the project’s architect and Hunter Engineering will be the civil engineer. Leasing arrangements are to be handled by representatives from CBRE Group Inc. Greg Ringle, the V.P of construction for  Derek Builders, also gave more insights on the project’s scale. Ringle mentioned that about 50,000 cubic yards of concrete would be poured at the site in the next year. He said the project would need about 156,000 man hours, and involve moving 40,000 cubic yards of dirt. This will also include burning up to 160,000 gallons of fuel to complete the project. Representative Jackie Orcutt of CBRE, also mentioned that buildings B and C from phase I were already available for lease. With this in mind, one or both buildings are anticipated to be pre-leased before the end of the construction timeline.