The construction of Keystone Place at Magnolia Commons, a 180,000 square-foot new senior living community along 245 Magnolia Avenue, just off Illinois Route 157 in Glen Carbon, an area known for its medical, senior living, and professional service facilities,  Illinois has begun. With Holland Construction Services, a full-service construction management, general contracting, and design/build firm as the contractor, the project features the construction of a four-storey building with a total of 79 independent living units, 43 assisted care units and 20 memory care units. Amenities will include a full kitchen and dining room, movie theatre, salon, bistro and fitness centre. Gori and Associates designed the project which upon completion in Spring 2023 will be the second Keystone Senior Living facility Holland Construction has built. Last year, Holland completed Keystone Place at Richland Creek in O’Fallon, Illinois. Also Read: Construction of Ravenswood Senior community completed, Illinois Keystone Place at Magnolia Commons’ ultra-inclusive service package will provide meals, housekeeping, transportation, and life enrichment opportunities that will allow residents to engage, explore and maximize their personal wellness. Speaking on the start of the construction for Keystone Place at Magnolia Commons, Brent Kingen, Chief Operating Officer for Keystone Senior Management Services said that they were excited to offer a new rental housing option for adults seeking a safe, secure, maintenance-free, service-rich lifestyle. Holland Senior Project Manager Tim Simon on the other hand said that having past experience in building facilities like this one that includes three different types of care levels, is very helpful in this project. “It’s an advantage because we understand the ‘why’ for why the client designed things a certain way. We understand their goals from a residential amenities standpoint and we’re able to ensure the building will provide a quality living environment for each resident, regardless of their needs,” explained Simon.