The  impplementation of the project to extend Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA)‘s water transmission network in Dubai is reportedly in the verge of completion. This was announced recently by the authority responsible for the supply of electricity and water in the city and emirate in the United Arab Emirates. The project, the aim of which is to extend the water transmission network by 36 kilometers across the country, has a total cost of US$ 72.4M and will include the installation and commissioning of pipelines as well as the enhancement of the installed and commissioned pipelines. According to DEWA the project is approximately 98.83% complete. The authority explained that works for the installation and commissioning of pipelines along the Emirates Road, as well as the Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Road have been completed. Pipelines from the Hassyan Pump Station to Dubai World Central as well as Dubai Investments Park have almost been completed. Also Read: Sea Water Reverse Osmosis (SWRO) Plant Project at Jebel Ali Power Plant update Lastly, pipelines running from Seawater Reverse Osmosis (SWRO) station located in the Jebel Ali Power Station and Water Desalination Complex leading to Sheikh Zayed road have also attained 100% completion. By July this year, all phases of the project are expected to be completed. CEO and Managing Director of DEWA, Saeed Mohammed Al Tayer confidently expressed that in line with the directives and vision of wise leadership, the company aims to develop world-class infrastructure for water and electricity. He expressed that projects such as the Water Transmission Network Project would enable the company to keep pace with the ever-growing demand in Dubai. Saeed Mohammed also stated that the company aims to provide its services in good accordance with the highest standards of reliability, availability, quality as well as efficiency. He further added that they make use of the latest international technologies when it comes to the generating, transmitting, distribution, and control of water and electricity networks.