Construction began recently on RUS Bus, a 500,000-square-foot Raleigh Union Station Bus Facility in Raleigh’s downtown Warehouse District, North Carolina. The project is being developed at the former Dillon Supply property by GoTriangle and its development partner,  Hoffman & Associates. According to the developers, the RUS Bus project, which is linked with Raleigh Union Station, will create a multimodal hub that will serve in enhancing the mobility of residents in Wake County. Reportedly, the RUS Bus will be integrated into a planned US$ 275M mixed-use development in Raleigh. The latter features two 40-storey high-rise buildings comprising 18,000 square feet of retail space, 400-plus apartments and 200 hotel rooms. Also Read: Nucor’s New Lexington Rebar Mill Project Coming to North Carolina, USA This project will be developed between West Street and Raleigh Union Station. Its groundbreaking is expected to take place by 2023, followed by site preparation and preservation of a portion of the existing West Street warehouse façade that will be incorporated into the new building structures. The mixed-use development, which is also set to include infrastructure to support a future bus rapid transit station, and pedestrian and bicycle enhancements alongside a new pedestrian bridge linking RUS Bus to Raleigh Union Station, is set for completion in 2025. Charles E. Lattuca, the GoTriangle President and CEO affirmed that the RUS Bus project was a unique bus transfer facility that would provide critical transit accessibility for people across the region, adding that he was grateful for the collaborative effort and support of the federal, state, local and private partners to improve transit connectivity in the area through this project. Wake County Commissioner, Sig Hutchinson on the other hand commended GoTriangle and its partners for working towards the advancement of transit options, housing affordability and economic growth in the city, pointing out that  RUS Bus was a public-private project that tackles all three fronts.