The contract for the Stonehenge tunnel project has been awarded. The £1.25 billion contract was won by a three-way European joint venture of Spanish contractor FCC, Italy’s WeBuild, and Austria’s BeMo Tunnelling. The massive A303 Amesbury to Berwick Down upgrade was severely hampered last July when the High Court ruled that transport secretary Grant Shapps’ decision to approve the Stonehenge Tunnel scheme against the advice of planning officials was illegal. Following the reversal of the decision to grant the Development Consent Order, a new planning application is now awaiting redetermination by the transport secretary. Highways England today decided to name the European MORE joint venture as its preferred contractor for the works in order to keep the project on track. The three-way joint venture was chosen over two other bidders: Bouygues Travaux Publics/J Murphy & Sons and Hochtief Infrastructure/Dragados. As the design joint venture, the FCC-led JV has enlisted Atkins, Jacobs, and Spanish designer Sener. Read Also: Contractors Pursued for Immingham Eastern Roll-on Roll-off Ferry Terminal Project, England Over a five-year construction period, the main works contract on Stonehenge tunnel project covers the civil, structural, mechanical, electrical, and technology components of the proposed tunnel, including the tunnel boring machine, as well as the approach roadworks and structures. National Highways has been collaborating with the Swindon and Wiltshire Local Enterprise Partnership, Business West, the Federation of Small Businesses, the Salisbury and District Chamber of Commerce, and the Salisbury BID to prepare for the construction phase, and has also partnered nationally with the Supply Chain Sustainability School to provide free online training. Within the first six months of construction, the preliminary work on the Stonehenge tunnel project will provide initial opportunities for local, regional, and national businesses. Contracts for archaeology and enabling preliminary work were announced in 2020 as part of the scheme’s total capital cost of £1.7 billion. Wessex Archaeology, one of the sector’s largest contractors, was awarded the £35 million Archaeological Mitigation Contract, while Octavius Infrastructure (formerly Osborne) was awarded the £8.5 million Preliminary Works Contract via the Collaborative Delivery Framework. National Highways, the company in charge of England’s major A roads, is also nearing the end of the process to award a Delivery Assurance Partner Contract worth up to £60 million in due course.