Recently, President Akufo-Addo broke ground on the construction of the University of Engineering and Agricultural Sciences (UEAS) in Bunso, Eastern Region. The $90 million project will be completed in two years courtesy of funding from the Export-Import Bank of Korea and the Republic of Korea’s Economic Development Cooperation Fund (EDCF). The University of Environment and Sustainable Development in Somanya will be the first public university in the Eastern Region, while the University of Engineering and Agricultural Sciences will be the second once it is completed. Nana Akufo-Addo congratulated the Korean government for its support of Ghana’s development during a durbar of chiefs and people before the groundbreaking ceremony in Bunso and assured them of Ghana’s determination to strengthen and expand the two nations’ friendship bonds. The current state of affairs in the world, according to the President, is hugely reliant on science and technology for the management and conservation of natural resources such as energy, industry, agriculture, medicine and health, clean air and water, transportation and sanitation, and more. Read also: Construction to Resume at National University of Science and Technology (Nust) in Zimbabwe To be a part of the modern world, the President said that it is evident that science and technology must be involved at all levels of the development process. He added that a country’s ability to understand, adapt, produce, and commercialize scientific and technical information in ways that are relevant to its culture, goals, and degree of development. He noted that that will contribute to the realization of the national dream, which was to fulfil basic survival challenges such as providing food, shelter, clothes, health, and security for the people, as well as creating wealth to ensure the current and future generations’ prosperity. He added that the government’s response to the current national concern over food security is also expressed in the establishment of this university. He also reckoned that the university will be a leader in teaching, research, and public outreach in a variety of sectors, tackling issues that influence the country’s food security and enhancing Ghana’s industries’ future competitiveness in a sustainable manner.