Berlin I data centre campus is being developed by Vantage Data Centers, a leading global provider of hyperscale data centre campuses, on 13 acres piece of land in Brandenburg Park, off Bundesstrasse 101 that begins in Berlin, the capital city of Germany, on the B 96 and ends in Aue town on the B 169. Once fully developed, the 250,000 square foot (24,000 square meters) campus will comprise two, multi-story, state-of-the-art data centres that shall offer a combined 32MW of critical IT load. The first phase of the project, scheduled for completion in early 2022, will include 8MW of IT capacity with a 300W/SF (3.23kW/M²) average density. Also Read: The Digital Park Fechenheim in Frankfurt, Germany As part of its environmental sustainability program, Vantage will offer customers renewable energy options at the Berlin I Data Center Campus to reduce their carbon emissions. The facility will use a highly efficient cooling system with outside air economization and it will also have the ability to connect to district heating schemes to reuse waste heat. Furthermore, the campus will feature on-site solar energy generation for non-critical areas, EV charging stations, maximized green space, and underground drainage to manage runoff into local waterways. The project for the construction of the Berlin I Data Center Campus in Brandenburg Park is a part of a US$2B project that Vantage Data Centers plans to carry out across Europe. The project includes the construction of the 390,000 square foot Warsaw Data Center (WAW1) Campus in Poland. The WAW1 comprises two state-of-the-art data centres, the first of which will include 16MW of capacity while the second will include 32MW of capacity, offering a combined 48MW of critical IT load once fully developed. Just like the Berlin I Data Center Campus in Brandenburg Park, the first phase of the Warsaw Data Center, scheduled for delivery in early 2022, will include 8MW of IT capacity. WAW1 will also offer customers renewable energy options and will feature hyper-efficient cooling with outside air economization and EV charging stations, along with amenities such as customizable workspaces, secure storage and multiple meeting space options. Currently has a total of 26 data centre campuses across 5 continents.