The new Beitbridge Border Post bus terminal, which is part of a $300 million Beitbridge Border Post Modernisation project and basic municipal infrastructure, is now being tested ahead of its scheduled debut next Wednesday. The Zimborders Consortium, in collaboration with the government, has committed US$300 million to the whole modernization and improvement initiative in Beitbridge, which is scheduled to be completed in April of next year. The program is being carried out on the basis of a 17-year build-operate-transfer (BOT) concession between the Zimborders Consortium and the government. Also Read: Zimbabwe’s Arcardia Lithium Project to promote employment The partnership will administer and maintain the infrastructure for the term of the concession, earning a return on investment via border toll payments. Mr Francois Diedrechsen, chief executive officer of Zimborders Consortium, said the project had been divided into three phases to ensure civil works were completed without disturbing the border post. These projects comprise a freight terminal, roadways, and ICT facility upgrades (Phase 1), a bus terminal (Phase 2), a light vehicle terminal and out-of-port works (Phase 3). Under Phase 2 of the Beitbridge Border Post-renovation, all construction activities, including ICT improvements, have been completed. Construction on Phase 3 (the light vehicles terminal) will begin next month and will be finished by the end of November this year. Among the other projects are an agriculture and livestock quarantine facility, a new sewer oxidation dam, 220 border worker housing units, and a fire station. The agriculture and animal-plant projects will be completed by the end of this year, and the housing construction will be completed in April of next year. The new oxidation dam had previously been turned over to Beitbridge Municipality in order to increase its ability to address sewage reticulation difficulties. The border post is expected to transport five times its present anticipated monthly capacity of 600,000 passengers, 30 000 commercial trucks, 15 000 buses, and 120 000 light vehicles after civil works are completed. Furthermore, the upgraded facilities would result in increased border efficiency systems and infrastructure, and it is being constructed to suit the proposed One-Stop-Border-Post between Zimbabwe and South Africa. Infrastructure deficiencies, among other things, have been identified as a key impediment to the complete implementation of the one-stop idea. Modernisation of Beitbridge Border Post is one of the key projects being undertaken by the Second Republic to promote the ease of doing business and trade facilitation. Construction of the US $300M project will result in the required improvement to the current infrastructure, which will go a long way towards creating effective and efficient traffic management for all stakeholders and the economy. The modernization programme is being rolled out in three phases: phase 1 involves pre-commencement works, phase 2 which will involve internal border infrastructure development and phase 3 which will involve outside border infrastructure development. Reported in October 2014 Zimbabwe has announced it will put aside U.S $100m for construction and repair of the Beitbridge border post facility to meet international standards according to a government minister. Construction works at the post will touch on construction of a new bridge, rehabilitation of the weighbridge and upgrading of communication and security systems. The Beitbridge border post rehabilitation project also includes upgrading of the road network to and from the bridge. Gate control infrastructure and perimeter fencing of the post will also be carried out. Other facilities to be upgraded include the parking areas, commercial centre and staff accommodation.The border post will also be computerized and have lighting systems upgraded. “The whole project is estimated to cost US$ 100m and currently the government does not have funds, and we look forward to get help from our neighboring countries,” the country’s finance minister, Patrick Chinamasa, said. The Beitbridge border post, according to the minister, is one of the busiest entry point from southern Africa, but still continued to hamper smooth flow of traffic as a result of inadequate facilities, and thus it needed to be refurbished to meet the international standards. According to Chinamasa, the government is currently engaging with different stakeholders from the Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) to come onboard and help in raising the needed amount for the Beitbridge post project. The Beitbridge border post rehabilitation project will include implementation of measures to strengthen the collaboration between the South African Revenue Service and the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority through the harmonisation of customs systems and procedures at the border post. August 2015 Negotiations for the refurbishment of the Beitbridge border crossing in Zimbabwe are underway between the Government of Zimbabwe and the contractor so as to help improve on its efficiency. In order to bring the facility which has not been renovated in a longtime to international standards, the government identified a contractor to work on the project – Beitbridge border crossing in Zimbabwe. According to the Minister for Tourism and Hospitality, Walter Mzembi, the Government was keen on the Beitbridge and his ministry had also been consulted on the future of the bridge. This is because it’s a very critical facility which opens up South Africa to Zimbabwe and Sub Saharan Africa. Beitbridge border crossing in Zimbabwe will not only involve refurbishing the bridge but will also involve new infrastructure for the same in the coming year. This will result in a new, modern high-tech Beitbridge. According to the Finance Minister, Patrick Chinamasa, about US$100m will be used for this project. Renovation on the bridge will include setting up a weighbridge, upgrade of the communication and security systems, installation of lighting systems, computerization of the border post and construction of a new bridge. This project will also include strengthening the relationship between the South African Revenue Services and the Zimbabwe Revenue Authority (ZIMRA) through harmonization of their custom procedures. The border post which is the busiest regional transit link in Southern and Sub Saharan Africa has been facing slow trade and traffic affecting the costs of doing business. Trucks have delayed in transportation of goods to various countries thus increasing the transportation costs and prices of the goods. Implementing the Beitbridge Border Project would be in line with the Government of Zimbabwe’s economic blue print, the Zimbabwe Agenda for Sustainable Socio-Economic Transformation which goes to 2018. October 2019  The government of zimbabwe has commenced rehabilitation of Beitbridge modernisation projects. The project, being developed by ZimBorders, will be undertaken over a period of 3 year and implemented under a Build Operate and Transfer arrangement (BOT) running for 25 years. According to Project contact manager Mr Herkie Sandernbergh of Raubex Construction, which was subcontracted for civil works by ZimBorders, the works on the project will include the construction of more commercial customs offices, paving and expansion of sewer and water reticulation facilities; separation of traffic into buses, light vehicles, tourists and commercial vehicles; construction of a commercial bridge to link with South Africa, upgrading of Beitbridge Municipality’s key infrastructure as well as the refurbishment of road networks to and from the border post. The border post will be run as a public-private-partnership between the government of Zimbabwe and Zimborders under a 17-year concession. “However, the main civil works of the project will start from next year up to 2021 when the project will be completed. At the moment, we want to ease the challenges mostly around congestion during peak periods,” he added. Also read:Zimbabwe to select contractors for Harare-Beitbridge Highway project During construction, the project will employ between 300 and 400 people from Beitbridge. Upon completion, the border post is anticipated to have a capacity to handle about three times the current traffic and passenger flow. The project will also help to boost the town’s economic and infrastructure growth. The modernization project entry which handles 15 000 travellers, 1 500 light vehicles, 500 trucks and 100 buses daily, will have the capacity to handle about three times the current volume of human and vehicular traffic. January 2020 Construction works on the US $241m modernization project of the Beitbridge Border Post is set to begin in February this year. The project is expected to be fully implemented within 3 years with contractor having already covered a lot of ground with regards to pre-work logistics in the first year. According to the project’s Contracts Manager Mr Herkie Sandernbergh of Raubex Construction, the modernisation programme was being rolled out in three phases: phase 1 which will involve pre-commencement works, phase 2 which will involve internal border infrastructure development and phase 3 which will involve outside border infrastructure development. “Some buildings will be demolished while others are set for upgrading to fit into the modernisation. We have a tight deadline of 24 months now to complete this project and judging from the stages we have covered, we are definitely going to meet our target,” he added. Also Read:Zimbabwe begins rehabilitation of the Harare-Beitbridge highway Some pre-commencement and minor works are already done and the main civil works will start next month. The initial stage involved minimising challenges of accommodating vehicle traffic during peak periods but there is plan in the pipeline to divert traffic through the export section, so that civil work on the main immigration terminal can be carried out. The contractor will then move from a transition stage to the upgrading of the current immigration terminal and other key infrastructure. An average of 200 000 travellers, 30 000 buses, 100 000 light vehicles, 35 000 commercial trucks uses the Beitbridge Border Post monthly. Some of the civil works which fall under the programme are the construction of more commercial customs offices, paving, and expansion of sewer and water reticulation. Other works are: separation of traffic, construction of a commercial bridge to link with South Africa and the upgrading of Beitbridge Municipality’s key infrastructure. Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa laid the foundation for the project in July 2018. March 2020 South Africa’s Department of Public Works and Infrastructure is set to erect a fence at the Beitbridge border between South Africa and Zimbabwe. This is in order curb the spread of COVID-19 (Coronavirus) in the country, by ensuring that no undocumented or infected persons cross into the country and vice versa. According to the Minister Patricia De Lille, the move is not of xenophobic nature, but rather, to protect those entering and leaving the country, as undocumented entrees would not be able to undergo the necessary health screening checks. “The department is communicating these process with neighbouring countries and organisations such as the African Union,” she said. 40km of 1.8m high fence will be erected, 20km on either side of the Beitbridge Land Port of Entry. The specifications are already finalised and all of the emergency supply chain management processes are undertaken; and the contractor appointed. The site will be handed over to the contractor on the 26th of March to begin with the work. “Due to this being an emergency, my department has instructed the contractor to substantially increase the number of teams deployed and the rate of delivery tenfold,” said the minister. The department has also implemented other measures to expedite the process, with all 40km to be completed within one month. The cost of the project is about US $2.1m. May 2021 The government of Zimbabwe and the Zimborders consortium is currently implementing a US $300m Beitbridge Border Post modernisation project, a move that is expected to to boost capacity fivefold for human and vehicular traffic at SADC’s busiest inland port. According to Zimbabwe Revenue Authority (Zimra), the construction project will result in the required improvement to the current infrastructure, which will go a long way in creating efficient and effective traffic management for all stakeholders and the economy. A total of 485 jobs are set to be created for Zimbabweans over the course of the construction works for the next 18 months. Also Read: Newly built Malawi-Zambia one-stop border post to boost trade The authority said that traffic handling capacity has been significantly affected by the ongoing extensive construction works at the border. “This has resulted in the reduction of working and parking space as well as traffic channels. This reduction in capacity is anticipated to result in significant congestion and delays in the effective passage of all traffic, particularly northbound traffic,” said the authority. The delays were likely to persist for the next six weeks but Zimra is doing its best in expediting the movement of cargo through the border post. “All stakeholders are therefore requested to take note and are hereby encouraged to consider, where possible, the use of alternative transit routes to avoid anticipated delays,” added the authority. At the moment a total of 45000 commercial trucks, 3000 buses, 10000 light vehicles, and 500 000 travellers use the border monthly in normal times, although passenger traffic has sharply reduced during the pandemic. August 2021  Phase one works on upgrade of Beitbridge Border Post in Zimbabwe nears completion. This is according to Transport and Infrastructure Development Deputy Minister Mike Madiro. The pre-commencement and minor works involves minimizing challenges of accommodating vehicle traffic during peak periods but there is plan in the pipeline to divert traffic through the export section, so that civil work on the main immigration terminal can be carried out. The contractor will then move from a transition stage to the upgrading of the current immigration terminal and other key infrastructure. Also Read:Zimbabwe sets aside US $8.3m for roads rehabilitation The overall Beitbridge Border Post project will see new terminals being built for each vehicle category. It will include construction of a new vehicle parking areas and feeder roadways. New equipment for scanning cargo will also be installed, which will speed up the inspection of goods and detection of fraud, smuggling and potential threats; explosives, radioactive substances, among others. A new ICT system will be installed to provide automatic queuing and payment systems for vehicle drivers. This will reduce manual unloading and inspection. As part of the agreement, a new residential complex will be built for the city of Beitbridge, as well as facilities for informal traders and other government services. Other utilities in the project include a fire station, domestic sewerage, home power line, a reservoir, water pipelines to the reservoir, a wastewater treatment plant and a water pump station. The project is being implemented within the framework of a public-private partnership with the participation of the state and private financial agencies. Under the under a Build Operate and Transfer (BOT) agreement, Zimborders will recoup its funds through border access fees to be collected over 17-and-a-half years, before handing over the property to Government. 82