Construction works are set to commence on a US$ 70M, 300-unit residential community dubbed One Rangers Way in Arlington, Texas, adjacent to the Choctaw Stadium and the National Medal of Honor Museum. Developed by Baltimore-based Cordish Company and Texas Rangers, the project is a part of the city’s US$ 4bn vision to transform the Entertainment District in Arlington, into a prime destination for activities or events related to entertainment, and premier sports, hospitality, culture and lifestyle. Hord Coplan Macht (HCM), an integrated firm offering planning, architecture, landscape architecture, interior design and historic preservation services, with offices in Baltimore, Denver, Charlotte and the DC Metro area, designed the One Rangers Way residential community. Sitting on approximately 532,000 square feet piece of land, the One Rangers Way development features an exterior amenity deck and green spaces, indoor and outdoor entertainment spaces, an outdoor infinity-edge pool, and fitness facilities. Also Read: Heritage Creekside Multifamily Project Begins in Plano, Texas The apartment units will consist of a wide selection of 1-bedroom, 2-bedroom and penthouse apartment homes, with expansive heights and floor-to-ceiling windows. Office workspaces, exclusive resident events area, and concierge services will also be provided, along with a 423 capacity parking garage. The One Rangers Way community is positioned at a prime location, allowing residents to have direct access to the Richard Green & Dr Robert Cluck Linear Park, which offers fascinating art sculptures, open areas for strolling and tarred paths for running and biking. Construction is scheduled to commence this fall, with its delivery date set for 2024. Principal of Cordish Companies, Blake Cordish also pointed out that the new development would become one of the most special residential communities in the country, due to its proximity to three iconic stadiums. The One Rangers Way residential community will also add to the new development which is currently underway at the Entertainment District and estimated at nearly US$ 1bn; this ongoing development which broke ground in March comprises the Loews Arlington Hotel & Convention Center and the National Medal of Honor Museum.