Grupel will be attending the Africa Energy Forum 2022, from June 21st to 24th, in Brussels, a high-profile event, that brings together public entities, consulting firms, financial institutions, and several energy-related sectors, aimed at improving and developing the energy industry on this rising continent. Today, Grupel’s Energy is in more than 70 countries around the world, but its internationalization endeavor started in Africa, more precisely in Angola. With the goal of becoming a leading provider in many countries in the continent, Grupel started to deliver reliable energy, through efficient high-power generators and complex energy solutions to different applications, from telecommunications to mining, construction, and power plants, among others. Given its many years of experience in Africa and the company’s culture of proximity with its customers, being at Africa Energy Forum 2022 is key, since it is a unique opportunity to meet with governments, energy players and industry leaders working in Africa and explore the opportunities and challenges of this ever-changing continent. The potential of growth in the continent is very strong, thus filling it with opportunities for innovation and development. Grupel is proud of its services and projects provided in Africa and hopes to continue to grow its solutions to keep responding effectively to the demands of clients there. Then, it is with much excitement that Grupel’s sales representatives will attend this event and host you at Stand 127, to answer the questions and petitions you may have. About Grupel Grupel is a Portuguese company, founded in 1976, that produces and sells portable and stationary power generators up to 3500kVA, as well as portable lighting towers. Equipped with components from internationally renowned brands besides our own brand, Grupel products are distinguished by their reliability and resistance. We have the largest production unit of power generators, in Portugal, located in Aveiro – which allows us a great flexibility to produce standard power generators and complex and customized special projects. We have a specialized team that creates solutions tailored to the specific needs of customers around the world, also ensuring quality services at all stages of the life cycle of our products, from design to technical assistance and supply of spare parts. Grupel is a brand distinguished by Portuguese consumers with the Five Stars Award and holds the SME Leader status, in Portugal. It is also internationally recognized, being present in over 70 countries and with an export volume of about 84% of its turnover.