Fields West, a $2 billion mixed-use project in Frisco, a northern Dallas suburb, has been launched by a development partnership comprising Hunt Realty Investments, Karahan Cos., Chief Partners LP, CrossTie Capital Ltd. and the heirs of Bert Fields Jr., the original landowner and namesake of the development. The 180-acre project will be located along the Dallas North Tollway within Fields, a 2,500-acre master-planned complex that will include the future headquarters of the PGA of America. Hunt Realty bought the project site previously known as Headquarters Ranch, from the Fields estate back in 2015. While specific Fields West components have not been revealed, the developers have signed a deal with Marriott International to deliver a new Ritz-Carlton hotel to anchor the property. Eventually, the development will include three hotels and offices totalling 4 million square feet. The site will also have retail, eating, and entertainment options, as well as 2,800 residences, according to the outlet. Fields West, according to project architect Gensler, will be “three times” the size of Legacy West Urban Village, a retail complex within the $3 billion Legacy West development in Plano with more than 300,000 square feet of retail space. Karahan Co. also took a part in the development of the Legacy West. Gensler indicated that more specific features would be disclosed at ICSC Las Vegas, a major trade exhibition for the retail real estate business that will take place in late May. Reportedly, the Fields West developers plan to open Phase I of the project in late 2024. Also Read: New San Marcos Multi-family Housing Complex Construction in Texas to Begin this Year Speaking on the Fields West project Karahan said “the amount of interest we’ve received from stores before we’ve even launched the idea is mind-boggling. They are drawn to the area because of its demography and growth. This will be the next major shopping centre. People from Celina, Prosper, Gunter, and Sherman are not going to use the tollway all the way south to Plano.”