The groundbreaking of 23rd & Swift, a Class A multifamily neighbourhood in North Kansas City, Missouri, was recently celebrated by Star Development, a fully-integrated, industry-leading commercial real estate company with proven experience in development, acquisitions and management. The 294-unit complex, featuring a diversified mix of one- and two-bedroom apartments will be located on a six-acre block bordered by 23rd and 25th avenues, as well as Swift and Buchanan streets. Also Read: US$ 27.2M Loan Secured for Westport High School Redevelopment Project in Missouri In addition to its beautiful external and interior design elements, 23rd & Swift will have amenities such as a pool, clubhouse, gaming and media rooms, workout facility, coffee bar, and computer centre. Residents at 23rd & Swift will benefit from the property’s closeness to all that the downtown region has to offer, as well as convenient access to key transit links. Star Development of Liberty, Missouri is spearheading the development while Bonaventure Design is in charge of the property’s design and construction. Star Development picked Bonaventure because of the firm’s reputation as one of the country’s most successful rental housing developers, as well as its strong connection with Jeff Price, Bonaventure’s design team head. Speaking on the appointment, Dwight Dunton, Bonaventure’s founder and CEO said that they were thrilled to be collaborating with Star Development, one of the region’s most experienced and recognized property developers, to build a really transformative multifamily project. “This mandate exemplifies the distinct capabilities of our vertically integrated platform, which has been constantly enhanced over two decades to successfully manage all stages of the development lifecycle. Whether we are handling the entire project or collaborating with others, we are firm in our pledge to create a great living experience,” stated Bonaventure’s founder and CEO. Maxus Properties is an investor in the 23rd & Swift project and will manage the property that is expected to open during the summer of 2024.