Two major contracts totalling US$ 125.23M (AED 460 million) have been awarded for the construction of 430 villas and townhouses as part of the first phase of the first residential district at Masaar Megaproject in Dubai, UAE. The first contract which entails the construction of 142 villas in the Sendian district was awarded to Kuwait’s Mohammed Abdulmohsen Al-Kharafi & Sons (Al Kharafi). The company is regarded as one of the most experienced contractors located in the regional construction industry, and its contract is valued at AED 228 million. The second contract that involves the construction of the remaining 288 homes was awarded to Intermass Engineering and Contracting Company. The company is a well-established contractor based in Sharjah. Scheduled to take 14 months to complete, the entire residential district at Masaar Megaproject is going to be divided into eight gated districts. All the districts will be set in a nature-inspired and woodland master plan. Arada picks Sharjah and Kuwaiti contractors for the project. Speaking on the contracts, Ahmed Alkhoshaibi, the group CEO of Arada said that the contracts were a key moment in Masaar’s journey to completion and that the company has agreed to an accelerated construction programme with the contractor in order to deliver Sendian rapidly, efficiently and to an exceptional level of quality. He revelled revealed that Masaar has been one of the bestselling off-plan projects located within Sharjah since its launch in early 2021. This is largely attributed to the growing excitement for the incredible amenities and facilities as well as an upgraded lifestyle that the project will introduce to visitors as well as residents. The homes in the Sendian district will range in size from two-bedroom townhouses to five-bedroom Sendian Park villas. Every unit that is a part of the project will feature smart home features as the standard. Additionally, all homes will be located within proximity to the entrainment and leisure zone right at the heart of Masaar.