Sciontec Developments Limited (Sciontec) has unveiled plans for the development of Hemisphere, a close to US$ 43M landmark building on Paddington Village, a 1.8m sqft of science, technology, education and health space coming up in the heart of the Knowledge Quarter Liverpool (KQ Liverpool) Innovation District. The building will feature approximately 116,000 square feet of innovative Grade A office space for health, education, science and tech occupier, as well as an array of collaboration spaces, a wellness studio, a café, and extensive new areas of biophilia inspired high-quality, green, public realm. Also Read: Latest updates on the construction of Pall Mall Twin Residential Blocks in Liverpool, UK It will be situated next to The Spine which, since opening in May last year, has won a hatful of design and construction awards, and it is now internationally recognised as one of the healthiest buildings in the world. The company has also launched a public consultation in preparation for submitting plans for what it claims will be Liverpool’s first operational net zero carbon building. The building’s design draws its inspiration from the human brain. Split down in the middle, like the two cerebral hemispheres, the Hemisphere represents the two sides of the human brain, where the right-hand cerebrum is creative and imaginative and the left academic and logical. Each side of the building has its own personality, look and feel and it will feature elements that differentiate it from the other. There will also be an industrial collaboration hub on the ground floor that will provide opportunities for anyone from students and innovators to freelancers and large corporates, to meet and collaborate.  Down the centre of the Hemisphere will be an incredible light installation that replicates the Longitudinal Fissure, which is the part of the body that is responsible for transferring information from the brain to the rest of the body. The building will be surrounded by 8m of public green space, and rather than taking the outside-in approach, it will take the inside out. It will have an outdoor workspace and spaces for exercise and relaxation that will provide somewhere for both occupiers and the general public to enjoy.