A $4 million Papago Golf Club renovation and enhancement project is set to commence in Arizona. The renovations on this golf club, owned by the city of Phoenix and managed by Troon, the world’s largest golf management company, will help prepare for the development of the new Arizona Golf House scheduled to commence construction by 2023, according to Papago Golf Club General manager, Daryl Crowford. A presentation to showcase the hole renderings for the Papago Golf Club renovations and detailed descriptions of the enhancements took place recently at a  planned open house ceremony. The golf course is planned to remain open for play throughout the 4 month renovation period, as temporary greens will be set on the 6th, 9th and 18th holes, while holes 1 and 10 will also have temporary tees. The temporary greens and tees will be set up at the Papago Golf Club to facilitate the renovation, which involves relocating the ninth and 18th green complexes as well as the first and 10th tees; this will make way for construction on the Arizona Golf House, adjacent to the ninth green, 18th green and Evie’s Pavilion. The 9th green at the Papago Golf Club will be moved to the corner of the existing pool to create a risk/reward par 5, while the 18th green will be realigned to create a new angle for golfer’s approach shots. The par-4 6th hole which is about 422 yards, will be extended, as the green complex will be repositioned and taken 20 yards backwards. Also Read $65m restoration of the Cobbs Creek Golf Course in Philadelphia The Papago Golf Club renovation will also cover the rebuilding of all golf course bunkers, levelling of several tees complexes and the addition of new cart paths around the tees and greens. Plans also call for the removal of over 10 acres of turf throughout the course to minimize water consumption. The Papago Golf Club renovation is expected to start by June 2022, with its delivery date scheduled for October 2022. Gregg Tryhus, the ACGF President, will oversee the project and Ron Despain, the senior VP of Golf Course Development at Troon, will handle the project management and enhancements. The construction work will be executed by Heritage Links and Casa Verde Golf.