Borg El Arab power station, a gas-fired power plant located in New Borg El-Arab City,, Hod Sakrah WA Abu Hamad, Qesm Borg Al Arab, Alexandria Governorate, Egypt is set to undergo a capacity expansion project. This came into light following the appointment of Wärtsilä Oyj Abp, a global leader in innovative technologies and lifecycle solutions for the marine and energy markets trading internationally as Wärtsilä Corporation, to deliver new generating equipment to add approximately 20 MW of output to the power plant. Also Read: Partnership for Construction of Smart Paper Rooftop Solar Plant in Egypt The Borg El Arab plant currently operates with four Wärtsilä 34SG engines running on natural gas, the cleanest of all widely available fuels. As a result of increased industrial demand for electricity in the region, additional generating capacity is needed, and because of the reliability of the existing operation, an additional two Wärtsilä 34SG engines was deemed to be the optimal solution. Wärtsilä will also upgrade the existing 40 MW plant with the latest generation control system. The Borg El Arab Power Station was built in phases which were commissioned between 2009 and 2019. With Tarsheed as the electrical consultant and ABC as the civil consultant, the first phase comprised the installation of a total of 12 gas engine units with a total capacity of 35.8MW. This phase was the first to be commissioned in 2009 at a total investment of slightly over US$ 22.5M. The second phase , which covers a total area of 10,000 Square meters, was carried out in two sub phases. Phase 2a which has a capacity of 30MW was finalized on 2017 at a total investment of close to US$ 27.7M. Phase 2b, which Wärtsilä will be working on was finalized in 2019 with a capacity of 40MW and at a total  investment of slightly over 26.5M. The entire phase features a total of 7 gas engine units. The Borg El Arab power station is owned and operated by  National Electricity Technology company (Kahraba), a subsidiary of Egypt Kuwait Holding and one of Egypt’s largest private energy providers.