The implementation of the Robinia residential project, which is the third phase of Masaar Megaproject has officially been launched by Arada, a property development company based in Sharjah. The project is in response to robust demand from property buyers for spacious, nature-inspired, and high-quality homes. Valued at AED 8 billion which roughly translates to $2.18 billion, the project features 565 townhouses and villas. The townhouses are available in two-bedroom units while the villas are available in five-bedroom forest villas. The homes boast smart features such as climate and lighting controls as well as remote access. The larger villas offer additional lounges, increased privacy, pristine swimming pools as well as expansive terraces. The Group CEO of Arada, Ahmed Alkhoshaibi, stated that Masaar has thus far been able to attract immense and significant buyer interest from a broad spectrum of nationalities. Ahmed attributed the community’s success to its desirable location, incredible value for money as well as well-planned design. He further added that they are pleased to launch the Robinia Residential Project which he revealed focuses on uplifting wellness and sustainability for their residents who value natural landscapes, exceptional community amenities as well as value quality of life. The mother project, Masaar will contain a total of 4,000 homes that will be spread over eight gated districts. The districts will all be linked by a “green spine” that features 50,000 trees. Reported earlier March 2022 Arada, a property development created to build communities that enrich, engage, and inspire their residents, has awarded two contracts for the development of infrastructure and landscape for two areas of the Masaar project in the UAE. The areas in question are the central precinct that is around the Masaar Experience Center, and the buffer zone that is around the edge of the community and which includes professional sports facilities. Also Read: Hayyan Real Estate Project in Sharjah, UAE, Launched The contracts, with a collective value of US$ 32.12M were awarded to Al Marwan General Contracting Company (MGCC), a Sharjah-based contractor and the first subsidiary of Al Marwan Group, and Al Qalamoon Garden Designers, a consultant company based in Sharjah. According to the contracts, MGCC will carry out infrastructure works at the buffer zone and the central precinct at a cost of US$ 20M while Al Qalamoon will do the landscaping works within the same areas of Masaar at a cost of US$ 11.7M. The two contractors are expected to complete the works by the end of April, a month before the planned opening of the Masaar Experience Center in June. The central precinct of the Masaar Project in the UAE is set to feature a children’s adventure playground, an outdoor amphitheatre, and a skate park in addition to a hub that will accommodate 13 kilometres of cycling network upon completion. The cycling network will also have retail, rental, and facilities. On the other hand, the buffer zone is set to be constructed by the end of September. It will include two professionally looped cycling and jogging tracks that are two 6.6km long and accompanied by numerous trees. May 2022 Two major contracts totalling US$ 125.23M (AED 460 million) have been awarded for the construction of 430 villas and townhouses as part of the first phase of the first residential district at Masaar Megaproject in Dubai, UAE. The first contract which entails the construction of 142 villas in the Sendian district was awarded to Kuwait’s Mohammed Abdulmohsen Al-Kharafi & Sons (Al Kharafi). The company is regarded as one of the most experienced contractors located in the regional construction industry, and its contract is valued at AED 228 million. The second contract that involves the construction of the remaining 288 homes was awarded to Intermass Engineering and Contracting Company. The company is a well-established contractor based in Sharjah.  Scheduled to take 14 months to complete, the entire residential district at Masaar Megaproject is going to be divided into eight gated districts. All the districts will be set in a nature-inspired and woodland master plan. Arada picks Sharjah and Kuwaiti contractors for the project. Speaking on the contracts, Ahmed Alkhoshaibi, the group CEO of Arada said that the contracts were a key moment in Masaar’s journey to completion and that the company has agreed to an accelerated construction programme with the contractor in order to deliver Sendian rapidly, efficiently and to an exceptional level of quality. He revelled revealed that Masaar has been one of the bestselling off-plan projects located within Sharjah since its launch in early 2021. This is largely attributed to the growing excitement for the incredible amenities and facilities as well as an upgraded lifestyle that the project will introduce to visitors as well as residents. The homes in the Sendian district will range in size from two-bedroom townhouses to five-bedroom Sendian Park villas. Every unit that is a part of the project will feature smart home features as the standard. Additionally, all homes will be located within proximity to the entrainment and leisure zone right at the heart of Masaar.