The implementation of Stockport’s Weir Mill regeneration project in Greater Manchester, England, approximately 11 km south-east of Manchester city centre, where the rivers Goyt and Tame merge to create the River Mersey is set to commence next month. This comes following the provision of funds and selection of a contractor for the implementation of the project by Stockport Council and the Stockport Mayoral Development Corporation (MDC), an innovative partnership that sets a new benchmark for town-centre regeneration. John Sisk & Son Ltd (“Sisk”), an innovative, international, engineering and construction company has been appointed as the main contractor for the £60 million scheme, which will see more than 250 apartments built in the Grade II listed mill and two new-build blocks by Capital&Centric, Stockport MDC, and Stockport Council. The houses will be built alongside new spaces for independent businesses such as bars, restaurants, cafés, and shops. The site, which is near Stockport 8 – a new eight-acre development set to bring 1,200 homes – is the next significant renovation for Stockport Town Centre West. Read Also: San’ao Nuclear Power Plant in China: Nuclear Island Installation Work Starts at Unit 1  The restoration of the Weir Mill site, funded by the Homes England Housing Infrastructure Fund and the Greater Manchester Combined Authority Brownfield Fund, will create new commercial space as well as a new leisure and culture destination for Stockport Town Centre West. “Weir Mill has been a constant presence in Stockport, with parts of the buildings dating back to the 1700s. It is now set to be the main character in the next storyline in the town. When you stand on the site, you can really feel the rich heritage; we knew from the start that we needed to salute that with something truly special. With new public squares, foodie hangouts, and tranquil green spaces, the neighbourhood will be exactly that. Stockport is not only a desirable place to live, but it is also a popular tourist destination,” said Adam Higgins, co-founder of Capital&Centric. “There’s no doubt that we’re living in turbulent times right now, but we’re pressing on. Creative neighbourhoods like this one will help the region recover. We can’t wait to get on-site in the coming weeks.”  The start of construction is a significant milestone for Capital&Centric and the Stockport Mayoral Development Corporation (MDC), with Weir Mill serving as a cornerstone project of the £1 billion town centre transformation. “This is another fantastic example of the momentum and pace of transformation being achieved in Stockport thanks to a can-do attitude and collaboration across the board,” said Lord Bob Kerslake, chair of the Stockport MDC. We are achieving the MDC’s goal of long-term inclusive growth by transforming the town with new homes, jobs, and sustainable communities. “Weir Mill, located just a stone’s throw from the Interchange, will be a catalytic site that will drastically improve the entire area.” Getting such a vision fully funded, with a respected contractor appointed and work set to begin, is a major accomplishment, especially given the current volatility of the construction industry.” “I’m delighted that we can take this next phase of Stockport’s ambitious £1 billion regeneration forward as the MDC reaches its next milestone,” said Cllr Mark Hunter, leader of Stockport Council. The MDC will build thousands of new homes, establishing a new town centre neighbourhood for future generations to enjoy. “With the progress at the Interchange, Exchange Phase 4, and the recent announcement of the Stockport 8 development opportunity, these are exciting times for the MDC.” These will significantly improve the quality of life in the area, making Stockport the most liveable and well-connected town centre in Greater Manchester. “For a developer of Capital & Centric’s calibre to deliver this strategic site demonstrates the MDC’s and Stockport’s appeal, as well as private sector confidence.” Our vision for the town centre is progressing quickly, and I am looking forward to seeing plans move forward now that the contractor has been hired.” The construction is expected to take two years.