To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a
web browser that
supports HTML5 video The construction of Mohammed VI Polytechnic University, of Morocco’s new campus in Rabat has received funding from the World Bank Group‘s Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) which has provided a €570 million guarantee. The guarantee, which was given to the French banks BNP Paribas, Investment Bank of France, and Credit Agricole Corporate, covers loans made to the OCP Group. The fund will help OCP finance the construction of the new UM6P campus near Rabat. The guarantee has been extended for an additional ten years. The top-class campus will have multi-sport facilities, digital learning laboratories, language learning centers, a library, and hotels to host visitors and train students from the department of hospitality business and management. According to a press release from MIGA, the campus will also feature Morocco’s first school and business incubator for artificial intelligence as well as a new department of governance. 2,000 students will have access to education at the new campus in a variety of fields. They will include fields such as hospitality, business and management, political science, governance, and economics. In order to strengthen Morocco’s leading position in technology-driven fields, the landmark project will link UM6P’s various campuses in Benguerir and Rabat, which are intended to support scientific, cultural, sports, and artistic achievements. Reported earlier May 2022 The new campus for Mohammed Polytechnic (VI) University, a Morrocan university that is also referred to as UM6P, has been completed after approximately 9 months of construction. The project was partly carried out by PERI, which strategically used a just-in-time approach for the supplying of an overall solution from a single source that is all-comprehensive as well as the project’s delivery. The company made use of the HANDSET Alpha Panel Formwork, the new ALPHADECK as well as the PERI UP Scaffolding solutions. SOGEA MAROC, a leading company operating in hydraulic engineering, civil engineering structures, industrial civil engineering, and building, which was the project’s contractor demanded compliance with France’s safety standards. In an effort to adhere to the high demands for efficiency and safety, Peri then, made use of a total of 2,000 meters squared of ALPHADECK Slab Frameworks for the formation of the 120,000 meters squared slab area. The new campus for Mohammed Polytechnic University in Morocco was imagined and designed by the Architects Elie Mouyat and Ricardo, who are also the creators of the Casablanca Twin Center. Also Read: New Ibn Sina Hospital Construction Project in Morocco Inaugurated The new campus combines the traditional and modern elements, and it is also integrated into the “Green City” transformation project that aims and focuses to make the city a model for sustainable development. The Mohammed Polytechnic University mainly aims to promote the development of comprehension and knowledge throughout various fields through graduate studies, as well as research.