The foundation stone was recently laid to mark the start of the construction of a four-storey multi-purpose office complex in UENR (the University of Energy and Natural Resources), in Suyani, a city and the capital town of the Bono Region and the Sunyani Municipal of Ghana. Featuring administrative offices, conference halls, lecture halls, and an ICT centre, the multi-purpose office complex will be constructed in a span of 18 months at a cost of approximately GHC19 million. It will be financed through the university’s internally generated fund (IGF). Speaking at the foundation stone laying ceremony, Professor Elvis Asare-Bediako, the Vice-Chancellor (VC), explained that the university desperately needed offices for teaching and non-teaching staff, lecture halls to accommodate its growing student population, as well as conference rooms and auditoriums for major university events such as matriculation and graduation ceremonies. Also Read: Ghana Audit Service to establish a new office in Koforidua The project of the construction of the multi-purpose office complex in UENR according to the Vice-Chancellor (VC) is a response to many infrastructural questions at UENR, as well as a continuation of many future projects. Once completed, Prof. Asare-Bediako, said that the building complex would address the issue of a lack of offices and conference rooms, as well as solve many other infrastructure gaps needed for the university’s smooth operation. Professor Elvis Asare-Bediako urged university stakeholders to work together and provide the required support so as to see the four-storey multi-purpose office complex in UENR on paper come to life on the ground and relieve the institution’s burden of lack of infrastructure. He also called upon the benevolent indigenes of the Bono Region, the government, and philanthropic Ghanaians, as well as corporate and charitable organizations, to support the university financially or in any kind. Bono Regional Minister Madam Justina Owusu-Banahene on the other hand praised the university’s initiative and assured the government that all ongoing Ghana Education Trust Fund projects on its campuses will be completed.