Led by the District Chief Executive, Madam Emelia Emefa Adzimah, local government authorities recently broke ground on a multi-facilitated hospital in Agortime Ziope District of the Volta Region, as part of a nationwide initiative to build over 100 hospitals. The Ghana Priority Health Infrastructure Project-Agenda 111 is in charge of the multi-facilitated hospital project, which will be carried out by Eye-con Limited in partnership with two other companies, Caks Limited and Northrock Limited, at a cost of USD $12 million. Madam Pearl Ogyiri, representing Pearl Consult, project consultants, released an update on the 18-month execution timeframe, with a projected start date of June 2022. She explained that the June count timeframe is due to several circumstances, including site presentation, mobilization to clear the site, and the completion of some paperwork. She emphasized the significance of local content in the execution process, assuring the public of fairness and guaranteeing the team of the people’s support for the multi-facilitated hospital project’s successful completion. Madam Pearl Ogyiri stated that the assembly, as well as its resources, would be ready to support its success. Also Read: Plans Announced for Construction of Hearts of Oak SC Stadium in Accra, Ghana Representing Northrock Limited, an Accra-based construction firm, Mr. Samuel Asiedu said that the project will boost the local economy by providing food and other necessities. He vowed to deliver high-quality work that will last generations on behalf of the construction firms Eye-Con and Caks Limited. According to Nene Akoto Sah VII, Chief Warlord of Agotime traditional area, the enclave had struck it rich with the New Patriotic Party-led government in terms of landmark infrastructure and facilities, as the area benefited from the water supply, a market facility, and the start of a district hospital project during the presidential term of John Agyekum Kuffour. The chief described their decade-long lobbying for a district hospital as a dream come true and conveyed his wish for the facility to be completed soon. He stated that the people are keen on facilitating the multi-facilitated hospital project with sand, stone chips, and other materials to complete the hospital as quickly as possible. Afadzato South, Ho-West, Adaklu, Agotime-Ziope, Akatsi South, Anloga, South Dayi, and Akatsi North are among the eight municipalities and districts included in the agenda 111 projects. It is said that the Ghanaian government has acquired a US $100 million start-up fund for Agenda 111 projects in the country, including specialized and regional hospitals.