The groundbreaking of the long-awaited $1.5 billion (I-35 Northeast Expansion) I-35 NEX project, took place recently at Santikos Galaxy’s parking lot in San Antonio, Texas. The Texas State Department of Transportation(TxDOT) will oversee the road project, which will involve the construction of a 20 mile stretch of double-decked highway, cutting across three counties, from Bexar, Guadalupe, to Comal. According to TxDOT Officials, I-35 is one of the fastest-growing corridors in the U.S, with its vehicular capacity estimated to grow to 400,000 from the current 200,000 vehicles commuting the area on a daily basis in the next two decades, and the I-35 NEX project is aimed at easing up traffic congestion and also improving road safety and mobility. Also Read ICC approves US$18m for major road construction projects in Illinois The first four-mile segment of the I-35 NEX project, which runs through San Antonio, qualifies under the Texas Clear Lanes initiative and is ranked No. 61 on the state’s list of 100 most congested roadways. This San Antonio axis of the project involves the construction of six additional lanes; one high-occupancy vehicle lane and two general-purpose lanes in each direction, all of which will be elevated to cut down travel times. Ramps linking the elevated lanes to the main lanes will also be included as well. The I-35 NEX project will also cover the expansion of lanes running north of Olympia Parkway to the south of FM 3009. This expansion work includes the lanes and bridges stretching across Nacogdoches Road up until the East of Baltimore at loop 1604. In addition, HOV lanes will be built for motorcycles, emergency vehicles and vehicles with more than two passengers, such as carpools or buses. Alamo NEX construction comprising Spanish Ferrovial Construction and its contracting firm Webber of Houston will lead the construction on the I-35 NEX project, which is scheduled to commence by summer. The first phase of the project is expected to be completed in 2028.