Atlanta’s Mercer University recently broke ground on its Moye Pharmacy Health Center, as part of a $36.8 million construction project. The new facility is named in honor of Tony Moye, a Mercer alumnus, trustee, and longtime supporter, who made a significant contribution towards the development of the new center. The 65,000 square feet Moye Pharmacy Health Center, which is a key feature of the $36.8 million construction project, will be built at the University’s main campus Mavon, close to I-85 and Chamblee Tucker Road. This new building will provide  classroom and administrative spaces for the  faculty at the University’s College of Pharmacy department. In addition, an existing 18,500 square feet DuVall building will also undergo some renovations to provide more laboratory space for research. Also Read Eastern Michigan University selects contractor for housing development The Moye Pharmacy Health Center will be built using a flexible and open design. At the first floor, students will have access to spaces for breakout sessions, study groups, organizational meetings and projects. It also provides administrative offices, flexible classrooms, including a clinical skills and simulation lab. The second floor will consist of offices, which are meant to be occupied by faculty and staff members, relocating from other buildings on the campus. According to Mercer’s President, William D. Underwood, the Moye Pharmacy Health Center will not only provide quality classrooms, but also provide an enabling environment for staff members to recruit students and researchers of higher quality to further expand the capacity of scientists and researchers. He said this would improve on Mercer’s continued partnership with numerous government, industry and nonprofit organizations; which would make the University one of the top ranking centers in the Southeast for pharmaceutical sciences education and research. The Mercer College of Pharmacy is the only pharmacy program in Atlanta that has recently received research grants from Organizations like National Institutes of Health, the Department of Defense, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and the U.S. Agency for International Development.