Construction of Hudson Piers, a US$ 585M mixed-use development that will have a mix of market-rate housing, affordable apartments, and retail space has begun. The project is developed by Extell Development on an area of 17.4-acre on the Hudson River waterfront in Yonkers, next to the Yonkers Metro-North station, which provides direct access to Manhattan’s Grand Central Terminal. The project, which is set to be carried out in phases over a six-year period, will enhance a vast stretch of land along the Hudson Riverfront, including Alexander Street, Water Grant Street, and Babcock Place. Designed by Perkins Eastman, an international architecture, interior design, urban design, planning, landscape architecture, graphic design, and project management firm, Hudson Piers has 870,000 square feet of residential space divided over six seven-story towers. Studio to three-bedroom floor plans will be available, all with washers and dryers, designer fixtures and appliances, and private terraces for chosen units. Waterfront recreation terraces with hammocks, fire pits, grilling stations, sundecks, billiard tables, putting greens, bocce courts, and an open-air swimming pool are among the outdoor attractions. Also Read: Bridge Rockaway Construction Project in New York, Begins Indoor amenities will include a variety of fitness centres, cafes, playrooms, a catering kitchen, a basketball gym, a screening room, a gaming room, adolescent recreational areas, and a business and conference centre. In addition, each building will have its own package, storage, and bicycle area. Speaking on the project, Yonkers Mayor Mike Spano, said that one of the most transformational developments along the Yonkers waterfront will be Extell’s Hudson Piers explaining that it would bring close the incredible momentum that has inspired unprecedented investment in the city in recent years. “I am excited to welcome additional families, companies, and jobs to Yonkers on the River and help us reach our full potential,” concluded the mayor. “We are thrilled to be a part of the tremendous revitalization that has turned Yonkers into New York State’s fastest-growing large city under mayor Mike Spano,” said Gary Barnett, founder and chairman of Extell Development Company.