The San Antonio International Airport(SAT) is getting set to move forward with its $2.5 billion SAT Terminal Development Project, which covers the design and construction of the airport’s third terminal. This terminal expansion is expected to handle the projected traffic growth, especially with the increased growth rate experienced lately at the airport. Plans for the SAT Terminal Development Project were presented to the city council recently by the Airport Director, Jesus Saenz. The project involves building a new Terminal C, which will add 17 gates to the airport, with the capacity to cater for the needs of passengers over the next 20 years. This is included in the Strategic Development Programme, which the City Council approved last November, along with two projects currently in progress to build five new gates at the airport. Also Read Latest Updates on Los Angeles Airport (LAX) Modernization Project, USA SAT’s Terminal Development Project will feature a new ground transportation centre, parking garage and terminal road realignment, which will assist with relieving and directing airport traffic properly. The two projects currently under construction are intended to provide five new gates until the Terminal Development Project is completed, but even with these additional facilities, the airport is still reaching its capacity. At the presentation meeting, Saenz mentioned that the planning and design phases of the SAT Terminal Development Project are still in the early phases; and out of the seven applicants to offer airport terminal planning services, the Corgan Associates firm based in Dallas was selected. The firm will provide financial analysis, phasing and other recommendations, on a one-year contract valued at $3.8 million. The construction phase is expected to commence by 2024,  with a proposed delivery date of 2028. Part of the funding for the Terminal Development Project comes from an airport infrastructure grant which will provide $59 million annually over a period of five years. The airport is also aiming for another $150 million, which can be accessed through a competitive federal grants program. According to Saenz, the rest of the funding will be sourced from passenger facility charges and other airport revenue, as well as airport revenue bonds.