The Märkisches Zentrum modernisation project is being carried out on the corner of Wilhelmsruher Damm and Senftenberger Ring in Berlin’s Reinickendorf district’s Märkisches Viertel. It involves a shopping centre that has almost 50,000 m2 of retail space, cuisine, offices, and health centres, as well as a 12-story residential tower, opened in the 1960s and rebuilt in 2001/2002. Aimed at preventing vacancies and bringing the mall into the current era, the Märkisches Zentrum modernisation project will include a partial demolition, new construction, and rehabilitation of the existing buildings. The current 55,000 m2 space will be extended by 7,000 m2 while the market hall, or ‘Markthalle,’ that is located in the heart of the centre, and it will include more than 100 units for shopping, recreation, and entertainment, as well as a range of cafés and restaurants. Read also: The Digital Park Fechenheim in Frankfurt, Germany These ambitious ambitions will be carried out while the centre is still open for business. As a result, the building duration is demanding, with staggered construction phases and the adoption of an interim solution. The ideas include an open architecture concept that will integrate neighbouring open areas to improve the overall neighbourhood. In addition to its extensive shopping choices, the modern centre will provide leisure and entertainment amenities. Gleeds Germany,  a global leader in project management and construction consulting, is assisting the client with the property acquisition process, as well as completing an exhaustive and reliable technical diligence assessment and providing our well-established technical advising services. Gleeds has also been tasked with project management and cost control for the entire spectrum of rebuilding and new construction measures. A strong, mutually trusted foundation for the working partnership through the successful collaboration on several prior projects, such as the renovation of the BeroCenter in Oberhausen and the Stadtgalerie in Witten.