The handover of the Creek Views I project in Dubai Healthcare City is set to begin soon. The project has hitherto managed to receive its building completion and civil defence certificates for a smooth handover. The certificates for the project were secured by the project’s developer, Azizi Developments, which has now helped to initiate the handover proceedings to its investors. The Creek Views I project is one part of 42 projects that feature a total number of 8,895 units, that are all planned to be completed this year. It features a total number of 634 residential units that include 218 one-bedroom units, 396 studio units, and 20 two-bedroom apartments alongside 33,341 square feet of retail space. Also Read: Construction Works for W Residences Dubai Project Begins, UAE The units to Creek Views 1 overlook the buzzing Dubai Healthcare City as well as views of the Downtown Dubai Skyline and Dubai Creek. The building is located along Al Khail Road and is within proximity to Dubai Mall, Dubai International Airport, DIFC as well as Business Bay. The project features amenities that include but are not limited to a swimming pool, a sauna as well as a steam room, an all-inclusive health club, and an outdoor yoga space. The CEO of the project’s developer, Farhad Azizi expressed that Creek views have manifested into a distinguishable addition to Dubai’s picturesque skyline. He added that they are pleased to be handing over the project in a matter of weeks. He concluded by thanking all stakeholders who contributed to “this world-class project”. Reported earlier April 2020  Construction of the 20-storey Creek Views building in Phase 2 of Dubai Healthcare City in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE) is 37% complete. The development from Azizi Developments features 634 residences, comprising 396 studios, 218 one- and 20 two-bedroom units as well as 33,341 sq. ft of premium retail space. Creek Views is scheduled to be completed by Q1, 2021, with construction progress now already having reached 37%. Creek Views represents the epicentre of the future, merging views of both the old and new Dubai and embodying the city’s remarkable transition from a traditional, iconic past to a contemporary, reinvented future. Built to offer modern luxury at its finest, Creek Views will feature an all-inclusive health club comprising a swimming pool, a fully equipped gym, a sauna, a steam room, as well as a serene outdoor yoga space. Also Read: Construction of 479-unit Aura building in Dubai, UAE 85% complete Overlooking Dubai Healthcare City, Creek Views boasts stunning panoramic views of the iconic Dubai Creek and the picturesque Downtown Dubai skyline. Situated on Al Khail Road, 7 minutes away from Dubai International Airport, 8 minutes from Dubai Mall and 9 minutes from Business Bay and DIFC, the development has all major business, leisure and retail hubs in its vicinity. The project has received a substantial investor response from more than 37 nationalities. Azizi’s most substantial customer demographic are Emiratis, making up 25% of its Creek Views sales. Completed transactions with Saudi nationals comprised 10% and those with Chinese nationals nearly 5%. Creek Views is also a popular choice among Europeans, with 5% of sales having been made to EU nationals. The remaining clients are GCC nationals, as well as a variety of customers from four continents, including North and South America, Asia and Africa. Aug 2020  Azizi Developments has broken ground at Creek Views II, its newly launched development on the shores of the iconic Dubai Creek in Dubai Healthcare City, a budding community that is rapidly coming to life and increasing in demand. Creek Views II will be built at a value of AED 350m. Mr Mirwais Azizi, Founder and Chairman of Azizi Developments, and Mr Farhad Azizi, CEO of Azizi Developments, in the presence of senior members of the company’s management team, officially dug the first shovel into the grounds of what will soon be another prestigious development by the esteemed developer. This exceptional new project’s design philosophy represents Dubai’s remarkable transition from a traditional past to a modern, reinvented future. Home to 587 families, this building will comprise 116 studios, 436 one-bedroom, and 35 two-bedroom apartments. With a focus on enriching lifestyles, Creek Views II will feature two swimming pools, a sauna, a steam room, a fully equipped gym, and a children’s play area. According to Mr Mirwais Azizi, following the outstanding investor response to Creek Views I, and with it being almost entirely sold out, Azizi has now decided to launch Creek Views II, opening the doors for even more families to bask in uninhibited lavishness, modernism and connectivity, as well as enjoy unobstructed views of the stunning surroundings. “We are proud to continue to catalyse the development of the great city of Dubai, with its unparalleled safety, innovation, and continuous progress, and are honoured to call it our home. We look forward to seeing our valued stakeholders come together to add this prestigious building to our portfolio. With the help of our diligent staff, knowledgeable engineers, hardworking construction site workers, hundreds of accommodating suppliers, supportive government authorities, and a host of other stakeholders, we look forward to turning this project into homes that will enrich the lives of those who would reside in them”, he added. The project is situated in the beautifully landscaped and well-thought-out DHCC, the emirate’s health and wellness destination, with direct access to Al Khail Road. This community is not only home to a wide variety of leading, high-tech medical centres, but also comprises an abundance of lifestyle and shopping options. Creek Views II will grant picturesque views, as well as an elegant, ultra-modern design and finishing. May 2022  The implementation of the Creek Views I, a mixed-use development project located within the Dubai Healthcare City (DHCC), a healthcare-free economic zone situated in the Emirate of Dubai, United Arab Emirates, is almost complete according to the developer, Azizi Developments. The leading developer based in Dubai with an extensive portfolio of modern luxury residential and commercial properties across the emirates explained that the majority of the construction works including the blockwork, internal plastering, and structural works, are already concluded. Also Read: Masaar Megaproject in Dubai, UAE: Contracts Awarded for Construction of First Residential District The project, which in percentage is approximately 95% complete, is expected to be handed over by the second quarter of this year. The Creek Views I features 218 one-bedroom apartments, 20 two-bedroom apartments, as well as 396 studios alongside 33,341 square feet of premium retail space. The units are built and designed to offer modern luxury at their very finest. The project is set to also feature an inclusive health club that includes a fully equipped gym, a swimming pool, a serene outdoor yoga space, a yoga space as well as a steam room. The project’s location is right on Al Khail road which is a couple of minutes away from Dubai Mall, Business Bay, and DIFC as well as Dubai International Airport. This means that it has got access to all major leisure, retail, and business hubs located within the city. The CEO of Azizi Developments, Farhad Azizi, expressed his gratitude to all stakeholders that are involved in the world-class Creek Views I project. He acknowledged their coming together as a contribution to helping the company achieve rapid and quality construction. He also revealed that due to its elegant and unique feel, the project is in demand from both local and international or rather foreign investors. Farhad concluded by stating that the company looks forward to the completion of the project within the next following months. Construction of Creek Views I at Dubai Healthcare City in Dubai, UAE, Almost Complete  Construction of Creek Views building in Dubai, UAE 37% complete  Ground broken at Dubai Healthcare City?s Creek Views II in UAE 