The final draft for the Los Angeles (LA) river revitalization master plan which establishes a new framework for additional open space and water quality initiatives throughout the 51-mile waterway’s meandering path has been unveiled by the Los Angeles county. The plan is defined as a toolkit for equitable community-driven river initiatives such as infrastructure upgrades and parks, while simultaneously addressing challenges such as climate change, biodiversity loss, and gentrification. Also Read: Plans Approved for CIM Mixed-Use Project in Hollywood, Los Angeles While several restoration efforts have focused on different segments of the river, including the City of Los Angeles’ Los Angeles river revitalization master plan and the lower L.A. river revitalization plan, the County’s plan is the only document that accounts for the entire corridor from its headwaters in the San Fernando Valley to its outlet in San Pedro Bay. While acceptance of the master plan would not immediately result in the realization of projects planned for the river corridor, such as a 42-acre park for the Taylor Yard, it will increase the likelihood that those projects will receive public money. It also develops a “kit of components” for new river projects, ranging from simple multi-use paths to channel changes and flood plain restoration. The L.A. County plan was launched in 2016 with a motion submitted by Los Angeles County Supervisors Hilda Solis and Sheila Kuehl, and it has been developed over the course of six years through more than two dozen community events and discussions. The plan’s consultants include architect Frank Gehry, landscape architecture company Olin, and engineering firm Geosyntec. “The Los Angeles River Master Plan highlights vital investments throughout the river’s 51 miles and supports our river-adjacent neighbourhoods. Once enacted, this Plan will ensure that every LA County citizen has equitable access to the river while boosting our local water supply, extending parks and open space, trails, and more,” Los Angeles County Supervisor Hilda Solis stated in a news release.