Nextdom Property, a Liverpool-based property investor, has submitted plans and applied for permission for the construction of Liverpool Pall Mall twin residential blocks, just north of the city’s business district along Pall Mall. Designed by the Liverpool firm of architects Falconer Chester Hall, the slightly over US$ 112M comprises Block A, which will be eight to seventeen floors tall, with 362 additional homes, and Block B, which will have a curving façade of up to ten floors to the corner of Chadwick Street and Pall Mall and will house 188 new residents. Read also: Plans Underway to Redevelop Glasgow’s St Enoch Shopping Centre In total, the project includes almost 8,000 square feet of ground-floor commercial and retail space, as well as 155 parking spaces. The apartments will be a combination of one, two, and three bedrooms. “The architecture catches up on the old warehouse/dockland nature of the site with the use of brickwork, arches, and vertical elevation focus to create a modern spin on the classic buildings of the area,” says Quentin Keohane of Falconer Chester Hall adding that the concept gives an active business frontage onto Pall Mall and, with careful landscaping, will produce a superb urban environment in what is currently an underutilized region of the city centre. According to Nikki Sills of planning consultancy Zerum, which is advising Nextdom, the land, which is currently a combination of surface parking and dilapidated sheds, will help to continue the regeneration of the Pumpfields region. Nikki said that the neighbourhood is in transition as the city centre develops northwards, adding that the development would provide much-needed housing and commercial space. “Given the site’s proximity to the commercial district, Moorfields underground station, and the local transit network, the 1:1 cycling provision complements what is a very sustainable location. The initiative aims to modify Pall Mall’s streetscape and connect this section of Pumpfields to the larger business district. These lands, according to the developer, are crucial to connecting the Pall Mall/Exchange Station investment region to the larger Ten Streets strategic development zone.” In addition to the construction investment, the Pall Mall Twin Residential Block project is expected to create over US$ 2M in new council tax contributions each year, US$ 73,383 in annual business rates revenue, and approximately 200 full-time construction jobs throughout the building phase. April 2021 Reported earlier Aug 2021  A 22-storey Pall Mall Press apartments build to rent building developed by Graham is underway in Liverpool. Designed by Falconer Chester Hall, the 280,000sq ft scheme will deliver 336 apartments consisting of one, and two bedrooms mix. Located at Prussia Street, the project client Ridgeback Group acquired the 30-36 site from Anwyl Construction early in the year and the work has already started for the 22- storey Pall Mall Press. The concrete frame for the linked two apartment blocks of 10 and 22 storeys will be developed by Midwest Formwork. Residents will benefit from the availability of sustainable components, with green roofs to recycled rainwater, solar panels, and internally, light-filled areas that lower the need for electric lighting. There will be retail space and a private garden terrace next to the residential apartment. Read also: The Castings private rental tower gets main cotractor Private Rented Sector Growth. Peter Reavey, Regional Director at Graham said that the 22-storey Pall Mall Press apartments are a positive facility for the city of Liverpool that will help in the much-needed PRS housing. “Located in a vibrant location, we hope that the project will offer a way for other similar development locally. We’re happy to be on board – it’s an amazing project and we can’t wait to see how it comes together over the course of the development programme.” The 22-storey Pall Mall Press is due to be completed in October 2023. Ridgeback group Ltd is a Private Limited Company from London. The company was incorporated on 06/12/2017 and has a registered number. Graham also was involved in the development of The Copper House, also in Liverpool, for the standard of rental living. Located on the Strand, a major arterial route in the city, the project complements the historic surroundings and completes the composition of waterfront buildings. Falconer Chester Hall is an award-winning architect with international recognition and multiple awards. Their offices are located in Liverpool, Manchester, London and Kuala Lumpur.