The longest road tunnel in Australia, with a length of 11-kilometres is set to be built in the Blue Mountains from Blackheath to Little Hartley as part of the Great Western Highway, a 201-kilometre-long state highway in New South Wales. This news was revealed by the New South Wales (NSW) government explaining that this was considered the most suitable option following feasibility studies and investigations. The tunnel design includes dual carriageways for eastbound and westbound motorists in separate twin tunnels, as well as a gentler gradient to reduce travel time and enhance freight efficiencies. Deputy Premier and Minister for Regional NSW, Paul Toole commented on the project saying, that this is a landmark legacy initiative that will provide safer and more efficient travel for locals, tourists, and freight travelling between the Central West and the East Coast. “The tunnel will also enhance safety and lower congestion for local residents, tourists, and freight operators. In May of last year, we began investigating plans to connect the two to create the country’s longest road tunnel – and today, we’re confirming that plan as the main alternative,” said Toole. Shovels will be dropped on the east and west stages of the upgrade early next year.  Sam Farraway, Minister for Regional Transport and Roads, stated that the Blue Mountains tunnel would provide a slew of benefits that would transform the connection between Sydney and western New South Wales. “The tunnel project will help enhance economic development, productivity, and accessibility in and through the Blue Mountains, Central West, and Orana regions as part of the major improvement of the Great Western Highway between Lithgow and Katoomba,” he stated. Read Also: Plans Announced for Streeterville Mixed-Use Project in Chicago, Illinois “It will improve the state’s major road corridor across the Blue Mountains’ adaptability during traffic incidents and natural disasters, and it will be constructed to accommodate future population growth west of the Blue Mountains. The straighter alignment will improve road safety through the mountains, and the tunnel will help unleash the potential of western NSW, benefiting all residents and businesses in this vital region of the state. When the Great Western Highway is fully upgraded, it is expected to save motorists up to 30 minutes between Katoomba and Lithgow during peak periods. It’s time to make the Western Highway great again, and this upgrade will help,” concluded Farraway.