The construction of an 80 MW thermal power plant at Port of Kribi was recently announced by the Port Authority of Kribi (PAK) led by the Director-General Patrice Melom. According to the latter the authority has already initiated an international request for tender in a bid to identify a development partner. The winning bidder will reportedly be in charge of conducting extensive technical, financial, legal, and commercial due diligence. The appointee is also expected to specify the technical solution to be employed, including the installed capacity, the technology that will be used, and the influence on the plant’s operating performance. Also Read: Latest Updates on Noor Ouarzazate Solar Complex, World’s Largest Concentrated Solar Power Plant in Morocco A consultation file to be utilized in the selection of private partners as well as the drafting of contractual papers required in the construction of an 80 MW thermal power plant project’s framework, including the power purchase agreement, will be taken charge of by the company. The services will be delivered over an eight-month period, with four months dedicated to the project structuring phase and four months dedicated to supporting the private partner selection. CFA 120 million is expected to be used on all of these services, with applications due by June 19, 2022. With this project for the construction of the 80 MW Thermal Power Plant at Port of Kribi, PAK aims to be energy self-sufficient. At the moment, Kribi’s energy demands have been covered by a Globeleq controlled thermal power plant. However, this facility frequently has financial challenges, which have an impact on energy supplies. Notably, at the end of October 2020, the National Oil and Gas Company (SNH) supplied 8,286.56 million cubic feet of natural gas (234.68 million m3) to the Kribi thermal power plant. The volume falls well short of the contractual commitment for the time being since it amounts to just 127.60 megawatts (MW) of electricity production or 59.07 per cent of the plant’s actual capacity of 216 megawatts.