Construction on the transmission line that will connect the Lesedi Power Project to the Botswana power system has begun. Zismo Engineering Pty Ltd has performed the basic work, and the path is being cleared of trees. Site handover, collecting the project team and resources, mobilisation of machinery and equipment, line survey and design, pole structure modelling, and evaluation and approval by Tlou‘s Owners Engineer, Mott MacDonald, were all part of the preliminary work. Also Read: Government Issues Tender for Construction of Solar Power Plants in Botswana Zismo has also begun equipment procurement, which includes the fabrication of steel and timber poles, crossarms, line hardware, fittings, stay wire, and assemblies. The equipment will be supplied in phases, with the first shipment of wooden poles arriving next month. The project site offices of Zismo have been established in Mogorosi hamlet, and a roving site camp will be established at strategic sites along the transmission line route. Work began with route preparation, which included the previously stated bush clearance and the installation of farm gates where needed, line pegging, inspection, and approval. The poles will be erected in parts, beginning at the Serowe end of the line and progressing to Lesedi. Work on the first portion is scheduled to begin around the end of June, with work on section two beginning at the end of September 2022. The line will employ around 650 wooden poles and 80 steel structures, which will need excavation, placing, assembly, dressing, planting, backfilling, and compacting, followed by stringing, tensioning, and regulating. This will be followed by testing, commissioning, and line energisation. The transmission line is projected to be finished in mid-2023, with the substations at each end likely to be completed in the second half of 2023. Following that, the sale of power may begin. Tlou’s Managing Director, Mr Tony Gilby, stated that it was excellent to have the transmission line work started in the field. The Lesedi Power Project is a gas to power project located in Botswana’s Central District, some 100 kilometres from the existing power infrastructure. Tlou Energy said that the financing that will be obtained will be used to carry out the project in two phases. The first of which will produce approximately 2 MW of electricity will require an investment of, while the second phase with a projected capacity of 10 MW will cost US$ 20M. Phase one of the project which is estimated to cost about US$ 10M involves transmission line construction, transformer installation, grid connection, procurement and installation of electricity generators, and potentially the drilling of additional gas wells. The said transmission line will run from the Lesedi project to the town of Serowe, a distance of about 100 Km, where it will connect to the existing power grid. This phase will produce approximately 2 MW of electricity. The 2nd Phase mainly aims to increase the initial electricity production to 10MW and it will involve the drilling of more gas wells as well as the purchase of additional generators. The cost of this phase is approximately US$ 20M. Upon successful completion of phase one and two, the company plans to expand the project beyond 10MW. This expansion is expected to be completed using project revenues and debt. Reported October 2020 Tlou Energy Limited, an exploration-stage company engaged in the exploration and evaluation of assets in Botswana and the southern Africa region at large to identify and develop Coalbed Methane (CBM) resources has announced that it is currently seeking funding for the development of the Lesedi power project. In a statement, the company noted that it has engaged Botswana Development Corporation (BDC) and the discussions are still ongoing and they hope to successfully conclude the funding proposal. It has also recently received an indicative term sheet for transmission line and transformer funding from a new potential financier. It will assess this offer alongside other potential financiers to evaluate the best possible option and funding partner going forward. Also Read: Botswana: Solar and thermal power plants planned for construction by 2026 Tlou Energy said that the financing that will be obtained will be used to carry out the project in two phases. The first of which will produce approximately 2 MW of electricity will require an investment of, while the second phase with a projected capacity of 10 MW will cost US$ 20M. Phase one of the project which is estimated to cost about US$ 10M involves transmission line construction, transformer installation, grid connection, procurement and installation of electricity generators, and potentially the drilling of additional gas wells. The said transmission line will run from the Lesedi project to the town of Serowe, a distance of about 100 Km, where it will connect to the existing power grid. This phase will produce approximately 2 MW of electricity. The 2nd Phase mainly aims to increase the initial electricity production to 10MW and it will involve the drilling of more gas wells as well as the purchase of additional generators. The cost of this phase is approximately US$ 20M. Upon successful completion of phase one and two, the company plans to expand the project beyond 10MW. This expansion is expected to be completed using project revenues and debt. Reported March 2021 Discussions to secure funding for Lesedi Power Project in Botswana are currently ongoing. Tlou Energy, the company behind the project has been working with a number of parties to secure funding. The Company is seeking project finance to build a transmission line from the Lesedi power project to the existing electricity grid as well as electrical sub-stations, gas and solar generation assets. The most advanced project finance discussions are currently with a very reputable Botswana based entity. Due to confidentiality the Company is unable to name the entity concerned at this time. However, the company can confirm that their investment committee and board have discussed and are favourably disposed to Tlou’s proposal. They are now proceeding to get a third-party technical review of the project as part of their due diligence process. Once this report is assessed an investment decision can be made. Also Read: KEC International to build 400kV power line connecting Edea to Nyom II The Lesedi project is proposed to be developed in two phases. Phase one involves transmission line construction, sub-stations, grid connection, electricity generators and potentially the drilling of additional gas wells. The 100 Km transmission line will run from the Lesedi project to the town of Serowe where it will connect to the existing power grid. Initial generation is proposed to be up to 2MW of electricity. Funding required for phase one is US $10m which can be staged if necessary or prudent to do so. Phase two funding is for the expansion of electricity generation up to 10MW. This will involve drilling gas wells and the purchase of additional electricity generation assets. Funding required for phase two is US $20m. Upon successful completion of phase one and two, the Company plans to expand the project beyond 10MW. As expected, the Company has received correspondence from advisors assisting the Government of Botswana in the execution of their Coal Bed Methane (CBM) program for the development of up to 100MW of CBM fueled pilot power plants. This is a positive development with further discussions planned. The Company aims to progress this matter as quickly as possible. March 2021 TLOU Energy is planning to raise US $2.6m for the Lesedi power project in Botswana. The funds are expected to go towards the construction of a 66KV transmission line from the project to the existing electricity grid at Serowe, and towards field operating costs and ancillary equipment. The TLOU Energy Lesedi power project is set to be developed in two phases. Phase one involves transmission lines construction, sub-stations, grid connection, electricity generators and potentially the drilling of additional gas wells. Initial generation is proposed to be up to 2MW of electricity. Funding required for phase one is US $10m which can be staged if necessary. Phase two involves the expansion of electricity generation up to 10MW. This will include drilling of gas wells and the purchase of additional generation assets. Funding required for phase two is US $20m. Upon successful completion of phase one and two, the company plans to expand the project beyond 10MW. Also Read: Ginchi Power Distribution Station in Oromia, Ethiopia, has been inaugurated Early this month, the company announced that funding discussions with a number of parties were ongoing. The most advanced project finance discussions were with a very reputable Botswana based entity. Due to confidentiality the Company was unable to name the entity concerned at the time. However, the company confirmed that their investment committee and board had discussed and were favourably disposed to Tlou’s proposal. They were proceeding to get a third-party technical review of the project as part of their due diligence process. Once the report is assessed an investment decision can be made. April 2021 Lesedi Power Project finance discussions are at an advanced stage with a very reputable Botswana-based entity. According to Tlou Energy, due to confidentiality they are unable to reveal the entity concerned at this time. However, they can confirm that their investment committee and board have discussed the project financing and are favourably disposed to Tlou’s proposal. They are now proceeding with a third-party technical review of the project as part of their due diligence process. Once this report is assessed an investment decision can be made. The Company is seeking project finance to build infrastructure to connect the Lesedi power project to the existing electricity grid in Botswana. This infrastructure includes transmission lines, electrical substations as well as the installation of gas and solar generation assets. Also Read: ESERA picks preferred bidder for 30MW of solar projects in Eswatini The Lesedi power project is proposed to be developed in two phases. Phase One involves transmission line construction, substations, grid connection, electricity generators and potentially the drilling of additional gas wells. The 100km transmission line will run from the Lesedi project to the town of Serowe where it will connect to the existing power grid. Initial generation is proposed to be up to 2MW of electricity. Funding required for Phase One is US $10m which can be staged if necessary or prudent to do so. Phase Two funding is for the expansion of electricity generation up to 10MW. This will involve drilling gas wells and the purchase of additional electricity generation assets. The funding required for Phase Two is US $20m. Upon successful completion of Phase One and Two, the Company plans to expand the project beyond 10MW. During the quarter, the Company successfully raised gross proceeds of US $3.6m pursuant to the placing of 75,000,000 new shares at an issue price of 3.5 pence per share. The funds raised are planned to go towards commencement of transmission line construction. While this work proceeds, Tlou will also continue its negotiations with other financiers for further development of the Lesedi project. 