A £100 million Narrowcliff redevelopment project in Newquay, Cornwall, has been proposed by Salboy, a privately-owned business, specialising in private equity investment and property development. According to plans the former Narrowcliff hotel, Hotel Bristol, and two residentials, as well as a doctors’ surgery, would be replaced by a high-rise block of 168 seafront apartments alongside a 77-bedroom hotel with a rooftop restaurant. The developer stated that he would include a clause that prohibits any apartments from being rented through Airbnb. In addition, the building will include local art, garden rooftops, underground parking, and a landscaped public realm. There would be room for five commercial units as well. Also Read: Corah Factory Site in Leicester, England, to be Home to 1,100 New Homes Sam Power, the architect working on the project explained that Salboy aims to develop a unique development of the greatest architectural quality that is inspiring in its design, and that will assist to kickstart rejuvenation and broader investment in Newquay. “The stunning design we’ve provided mimics the form of the coastal landscape and provides space for the hotel and residential units, as well as plenty of public amenities such as shops, cafés, a boardwalk, and a landscaped courtyard. Dynamic massing and cut-throughs add visual interest and help the structure fit into the surrounding context,” explained the architect. Commenting on the project, Salboy managing director Simon Ismail said that they were thrilled to finally be able to bring to the public what they had been working so hard on and that they believe everybody will be able to share their ambition for what an improved Narrowcliff might look like. “There’s no doubt that this is a great goal, and we can’t wait to get started and see it through. The public consultation provided us with an excellent opportunity to collect a large amount of feedback, which we will now use to support the formal planning application,” concluded Ismael. A socio-economic assessment inaugurated by Salboy and conducted by independent consultant Brookdale Consulting concluded that the hotel and apartments would help 375 direct and indirect jobs over a three-year construction phase, with a GVA of £27 million per year.