A 2000 kilometer high-speed rail network in Egypt is soon to get underway. Siemens Mobility, Orascom Construction, and Arab Contractors have signed the construction contract. The integrated system for people and goods will connect 60 cities across the country with trains that can travel at speeds of up to 230 kilometers per hour. For the next 15 years, the consortium will design, install, commission, and maintain the entire system. It is estimated that when all aspects of the project are completed, up to 40,000 local jobs will be created. Siemens Mobility’s share of the combined deal, the largest in the company’s history, is €8.1 billion, which includes a €2.7 billion initial contract for the first line signed in September 2021. It will supply 41 Velaro eight-car high-speed trains, 94 Desiro four-car regional train sets, and 41 Vectron freight locomotives. Orascom Construction‘s share of the newly signed phase is US$1.2 billion, bringing the company’s total share of all three lines to US$1.8 billion. The contract is with the Egyptian National Authority for Tunnels (NAT), a governmental authority overseen by Egypt’s Ministry of Transport. Read Also: Quayside 12, Newcastle’s Largest Build to Rent Scheme Receives Planning Permission Three lines will make up the high-speed network. The 660-kilometer line connecting the port cities of Ain Sokhna on the Red Sea to Marsa Matrouh and Alexandria on the Mediterranean had already been announced. One of the two newly signed lines runs 1,100 kilometers between Cairo and Abu Simbel near the Sudanese border, connecting the megacity to emerging economic centers in the south. The third line will be 225 kilometers long and will connect Luxor’s world heritage archaeological sites with Hurghada on the Red Sea. Furthermore, this rail link will improve the efficiency and sustainability of freight transport for goods and materials between Safaga harbor and inland locations. The integrated rail system will be accessible to approximately 90% of Egyptians. The fully electrified network is expected to reduce carbon emissions by 70 percent when compared to current car or bus transportation. Reported January 2021 The National Authority for Tunnels, a governmental authority under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport of Egypt, and Siemens Mobility have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) together with the local companies Orascom Construction S.A.E. and The Arab Contractors (Osman Ahmed Osman & Co.), to design, install and commission Egypt’s first ever high-speed rail transportation system. Additionally, Siemens Mobility will be providing maintenance services. The agreement comprises a rail system with a network of 1000km, with the first being a 460km high-speed line. The order value of this initial high-speed line is around US $3bn. The MoU was signed by Essam Waly, Chairman of Egypt’s National Authority for Tunnels, and Michael Peter, CEO Siemens Mobility, in Cairo. This was witnessed by His excellency, Prime Minister Mostafa Madbouly, His excellency, Minister of Transport Egypt Kamel Al Wazir, as well as Siemens CEO Joe Kaeser and Siemens Deputy CEO Roland Busch. Also Read: Construction works at NAC’s CBD in Egypt almost complete According to Joe Kaeser, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG, by building a high efficiency rail system for the country, the company will support the Egyptian people with affordable, clean and reliable transportation. “We are honored and proud to expand our trustful partnership with Egypt. After the highly successful energy Mega project, we are now keen to repeat this visionary spirit in the mobility sector together with our partners,” he added. The first 460km long high-speed rail system will connect the vastly developing cities of El-Alamein on the Mediterranean Sea to Ain Sokhna on the Red Sea, while also passing through the New Administrative Capital. The line will also be operable for freight transport purposes which will further foster economic growth in the region. Reported September 2021 Construction works have begun on Egypt’s first high-speed railway from Ain Sukhna, parallel to the Hurghada road, to Marsa Matrouh, respectively on the Red Sea coast and the Mediterranean coast, have begun. The project is planned to have four legs. The first line is planned to run from Ain Sokhna, through Egypt’s New Administrative Capital, to El Alamein on the Mediterranean coast, while the second leg of the railway will link the Red Sea’s main port with Alexandria and the port of Matrouh Gargoub. Also Read: Construction of El Salam Bridge in El Asher Bus Station, Egypt, almost complete The third lane will connect Hurghada and Safaga with Qena and Luxor, and the fourth will connect Six October city with Luxor and Aswan. Reportedly, preparation works on the path including digging the mountains in the distance from Helwan and May 15th to the Administrative Capital have already begun. The contracting companies participating in the implementation of the project, resort to using explosives to detonate the mountains that cross the railway path. The entire project is expected to be fully operational in 24 months’ time from the day the construction works begin. Egyptian/Local contracting companies, particularly Orascom Construction and Arab Contractors, are involved in the work of preparing the track and the road on which the express train will run in parallel with the initiation of the construction of the stations along the route. Germany’s Siemens Mobility will be implementing the project’s signaling and communication systems and supplying the trains that will operate on it after its implementation. Reportedly, the parties involved will be paid US$ 23bn for building and maintaining the rail network over 15 years according to a memorandum of understanding signed with Egypt’s National Authority for Tunnels back at the beginning of this year (2021). 100