A US$ 60M Milwaukee Tool Production plant recently broke ground in Grenada County, Mississippi. This facility will be the fourth location of Milwaukee Tool in the state, which will serve not only to grow the company’s footprint, power tool accessories and power tool business but also double as a centralized location for repairs. Although construction on the Milwaukee plant has been underway for almost a month now, a ceremonial event was held recently with the Mississippi Lt. Governor Delbert Hosemann in attendance, along with Philip Gunn, Speaker of the Mississippi House of Reps, and several other state officials. Also Read Nikola breaks ground on new manufacturing facility in Arizona, US The new Milwaukee Tool Production plant has been planned to be a 563,000 square foot factory, which will have the capacity to produce over 100 million of Milwaukee’s signature SAWZALL blades per year. The company says the new development is expected to bring up to 800 new jobs to the region and is scheduled to open by mid-2023. The President and Executive Director for the Greater Grenada Area Chamber of Commerce and the Greater Grenada Foundation for Economic Development, Matthew Harrison, welcomed the new Milwaukee Tool Production plant, which he said would operate as a service centre and also be used in building power tool accessories in Grenada County. Harrison pointed out that Grenada was the ideal location for the Milwaukee plant due to its focus on manufacturing and available infrastructure, with its interstate highway system, rail system and airport system all at the same location. He also spoke on Grenada’s workforce, stating that about 32 to 34% of the workforce were skilled in manufacturing. He said the state was committed to producing a skilled workforce and is currently working with community colleges to organize training for its workforce. Milwaukee’s Power Tool Accessories President, Scott Griswold mentioned that the development of the new Milwaukee Tool Production plant would involve very advanced high-tech operations. Griswold added that going forward, a lot of new technology will be developed there. He said the company was pleased with its continued growth in Mississippi