The Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) has announced that the Sea Water Reverse Osmosis (SWRO) plant that is being built in the Jebel Ali Power Plant and Water Desalination Complex is approximately 96.5% complete. The project, which is a key contributor to the supply of water and electricity in Dubai, the most populous city in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the capital of the Emirate of Dubai, aims to provide services that meet the highest standards of quality, reliability, and availability. Speaking on this milestone, the CEO and Managing Director of The Dubai Electricity and Water Authority, Saeed Mohammed Al Tayer, the remaining finishing works are expected to be fully completed in the second quarter of 2022. According to Al Tayer, by 2030 the plant’s desalinated water production is projected to reach 730 MIGD. Reported earlier Sep 2020 Construction of Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA)‘s Seawater Reverse Osmosis (SWRO) Desalination Plant at the Jebel Ali Power Plant and Desalination Complex is 79% complete and making significant progress. Wherein the project’s main buildings are at the finishing stage. Most of the marine works are complete and the commissioning works started, especially after the successful operation of the first main power transformer. The new SWRO plant and its associated facilities is being developed to include an advanced pre-treatment, double-pass reverse osmosis SWRO technology, post-treatment process and storage facilities that are connected to the water network. The plant is scheduled for operation in Q1 2021 to meet the reserve margin criterion set for peak water demand for 2021 and beyond. The plant will have a total production capacity of 40 Million Imperial Gallons per Day (MIGD). Jebel Ali Power Plant and Desalination Complex are one of the main complexes providing Dubai with reliable, efficient, and high-quality electricity and water services. DEWA awarded a US $237.1m contract for the construction of the SWRO-based desalination plant in Jebel Ali to a joint venture comprising ACCIONA Agua SA and Belhasa Six Construct (BeSIX). Also Read: Utico Plans to Develop Desalination Plant in Ghubra, Oman This project supports DEWA’s decoupling of water production and power generation by using electricity generated from solar power for desalination using SWRO technology. These big solar projects launched by DEWA achieved several times the lowest Levelized Cost of solar power globally and contributed to reducing the global costs of generating electricity from solar power.