Plans are underway for the development of an 850,000 square-foot Semcorp manufacturing plant at the Sidney Industrial Park in Millcreek, Ohio. The developers, SEMCORP Advanced Materials announced recently that this new battery materials manufacturing facility would be used in producing separator films, which are essential components needed to make batteries for electric vehicles. The project’s site received approval from the Ohio Tax Authority for tax credit assistance in March 2022 and has been approved for major industrial development since 2016. The Semcorp manufacturing plant project, which is the developer’s largest foreign direct investment in Ohio, is expected to create up to 1,200 jobs, with an annual payroll of $73 million. The manager of Sidney City, Andrew Bowsher mentioned that the Mayor, Sidney City Council and the City were all thrilled to work with SEMCORP, and they were encouraged by the company’s willingness to bring more economic growth to the region. He mentioned that the city is providing support for the project in form of incentives and will not only work with key leaders to develop the plant but also carry out construction work around the site to rebuild the roads and infrastructure within its vicinity. AlsoRead: Also Read $1.29 Billion Toyota EV Battery Plant to be developed in North Carolina SEMCORP’s Co-Founder and CEO, Paul Lee mentioned that the Semcorp manufacturing plant would advance the nation’s goal of building its supply chain for EVs and energy storage. Lee said this new Sidney location would be the largest manufacturing facility producing separator films for EV batteries in the U.S, and his company was looking forward to working with state and local leaders to make the commercial production of this component a reality. According to SEMCORP, the battery production will not be part of the operations at the facility and lithium will not be used for the manufacturing process of the separator film component. In addition, lithium will not be mined at the project’s site, as there are no lithium deposits located in Ohio or its surrounding areas.