Nairobi residents who use the congested Mombasa Road will rejoice as Kenya Railways revealed plans to build two additional railway stations in Mlolongo, Machakos, and Kitengela, Kajiado. In a statement recently, Kenya Railways claimed that the mini-stations would be built in the two towns’ Central Business Districts (CBDs) to increase their services and relieve congestion on Mombasa Road. In addition, the company issued a tender for the building of the termini, soliciting offers from prospective contractors. Mlolongo and Kitengela will be added to the growing railway network as a result of the stations’ construction. It will also enhance passenger traffic, which means more revenue for the parastatal. The commuter train now goes from Athi River through Syokimau, Imara Daima, and Makadara before arriving at the Nairobi Central railway station. Also Read Nairobi Railway City project timeline and latest news The two stations will complement the Nairobi Expressway, which has cut travel time between the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) and Nairobi’s Westlands district by more than an hour and a half. Kenya Railways will construct a third substation in Kibera in addition to the two new ones. Kenya Railway is targeting thousands of commuters from informal settlements, citing the inadequacy of current mini-stations to accommodate the traffic. Kenya Railways said on March 16 that it would be building many stations in Nairobi and the surrounding townships. There will be stopovers in Mukuru Kwa Njenga, Mutindwa, and Satellite. Dagoretti Market, Thogoto, Aviation, Gitaru, Kariobangi South, Mutuini, Membley, Kenyatta University, and Madaraka near Strathmore University will also have stops. New stations will also be built at Lukenya and Konza. To meet the planned alterations, the CBD terminal will also be expanded. The railway’s current lines are Nairobi-Kibera-Kikuyu, Nairobi-Makadara-Embakasi Village, and Nairobi-Githurai-Mwiki-Kahawa. Kenya Railways has made buses accessible at the central station to transport passengers to several sites within the city, including Upper Hill, Westlands, and Yaya Centre. In order to alleviate traffic congestion in the city, the corporation will collaborate with the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) and the National Youth Service (NYS).