Construction has officially begun on the West Falls, a 10-acre, 1.2 million-square-foot transit-oriented mixed-use development near the West Falls Church Metro station, Leesburg Pike (Route 7), and Interstate 66 in Virginia. This comes following a groundbreaking ceremony carried out in the city of Falls Church by projects developer, Hoffman & Associates, which is a privately-held real estate development company based in Washington D.C. most known for mixed-use and urban developments. Trammell Crow Company, a real estate development, investment, and property management company that has been a subsidiary of CBRE Group since 2006, will also be a part of the West Falls mixed-use project team. The West Falls mixed-use project features a residential component that has three buildings one of which will offer approximately 800,000 square feet of residential space, including apartments, condominium units, and senior housing. A second building with a 371,000-square-foot space will house 400 flats, including affordable housing while the third a 174,000-square-foot condominium skyscraper will house 126 apartment units. Also Read: Project Announced for Renovation of Park-Vue in Alexandria, Virginia The development will also include a 260,000-square-foot, 215-unit senior living complex run by a nationally known senior living operator, and 125,000 square feet of medical office space. The Commons, an outdoor community meeting place with approximately 18,000 square feet of open space.  It will also be pedestrian-friendly and include bike routes. P. David Tarter, Mayor of Falls Church, hailed the project saying, “The West Falls project will provide a dynamic, walkable attraction for the neighbourhood and region to enjoy while raising tax money to fund the new Meridian High School next door.” Shawn Seaman, president of Hoffman & Associates, on the other hand said, “We are honoured to oversee this project that will have such a long-term good influence on the neighbourhood, the city of Falls Church, and the region. West Falls will not only provide a greater feeling of connectedness here in Falls Church, but will also provide employment, housing, local shops, and a new grocery store, as well as open, communal places to meet, interact, and experience everything this beautiful city has to offer.”