There are plans to redevelop the Corah factory site in Leicester into a mixed-use development with over 1,000 homes. The Factory, the last major city brownfield site in single ownership, has received a hybrid planning application from partners Cityregen and Galliford Try Investments. Full planning permission is sought for the demolition of nearly all buildings and the construction of a six-story building with 44 one- and two-bed flats in the first phase. According to the preliminary plans, several buildings ranging in height from four to eighteen stories will be constructed to house up to 1,140 people. Proposals also include the rejuvenation of the Old Textile Facility in the site’s centre and the reintroduction of Corah Green, a publicly accessible open green area in the site’s centre point. Two existing chimneys fronting the Grand Union Canal alongside will be preserved, while a new bridge connecting the city centre to Abbey Park will be constructed. “Our impactful plans promise to unleash the Corah site and build a new legacy for this essential location in the city,” a spokesperson for Cityregen Leicester and Galliford Try Investments stated. Read Also: Contract awarded for development of New Acres Wandsworth a 480 new Build to Rent homes in London “The plans will breathe new life into this area of Leicester, establishing a vibrant new community and destination that will serve as a catalyst for further growth and regeneration. While revitalizing the Corah site, our proposals also acknowledge its significant history. Our plans are inspired by this legacy, and the site’s heritage has been woven throughout the proposals to ensure Leicester residents are connected to the Corah Site’s past in its new incarnation.” “This site symbolizes one of the last significant rejuvenation sites in single ownership in the city of Leicester and is a significant approach to deliver much necessary homes,” said Michelle Davies, director of planning consultancy DPP. “Over the last year, we went through a precise and comprehensive pre-application process with the Council and major stakeholders, and we now look forward to moving this fantastic project through the planning process.”