The final investment decision has been made for the US$ 850M Rodeo Renewed project, which involves the transformation of Phillips 66’s San Francisco Refinery in Rodeo, California, into one of the world’s largest renewable fuel facilities. The energy company has already received approval from Contra Costa County to move forward with the conversion. Phillips 66 is embarking on the Rodeo Renewed project with the aim of reducing its carbon footprint while providing affordable and reliable energy. The new facility will utilise waste oils, fats, grease and vegetable oils to produce up to 800 million gallons of renewable transportation fuels annually, which equates to over 50,000 barrels per day. Renewable diesel, renewable gasoline and sustainable aviation fuel are some of the products to be expected from the facility. Over the course of the Rodeo Renewed project, pre-treatment units will be built and it will also cover the reconfiguration of existing hydrocracking units to enable the production of renewable fuels. The facility will be irreversibly repurposed to produce renewable fuel, and processing crude oil will no longer be possible in the future. Also Read US$ 6bn Project Helix Renewable Fuel Plant to be Developed in Houston, Texas Commercial operations are scheduled to commence by the first quarter of 2024, and this will result in the creation of several employment opportunities, which include about 500 construction jobs and over  650 permanent jobs. Other benefits of the Rodeo Renewed project include a reduction in the carbon emissions life cycle by nearly 65%, which is the equivalent of 1.4 million cars being removed from California roads each year. The converted facility will cut down water usage by 160 million gallons annually, as well as reduce criteria pollutant emissions at the site by 55%. The Rodeo Renewed project site also offers flexible logistic infrastructure, which will enable renewable feedstock from domestic, local and international sources to be secured with ease and the eventual supply of renewable fuels to California and other markets. The CEO and chairman of Phillips 66, Greg Garland applauded the Rodeo Renewed project, stating that the converted facility would help meet the growing demand for low-carbon fuels, preserve jobs and ultimately support California in achieving its climatic goals.