Construction work on the Grand Theatre d’Agadir in Agadir, a city along Morocco’s southern Atlantic coast, will begin in the second quarter of 2022, according to the Société Al Omrane Souss-Massa‘s preliminary schedule for the 2022 financial year. The civil works, particularly the carcass work, waterproofing, as well as steel framework, were commissioned to the consortium Urbagec, Polysol, and Separator by Al Omrane, who is responsible for delegated project management of this project under the Urban Development Program (PDU) for the duration of 2020–2024. Read also:Abu Simbel Culture Palace project construction works Inspection As stated previously, four groups and companies applied for this tender: the above mentioned group, as well as the companies Roudani, Jet Contractros, and AHMA. Recently, the commission began its work after reviewing administrative, technical, and financial documents, including the verification of letters of commitment. Polysol and Separator consortium, according to Al Omrane Souss-Massa, the most favorable offer justified will determine the contractor’s choice. Al Omrane Souss-Massa plans to launch two more tenders in the fourth quarter of 2022, pending the effective start of construction on the Grand Théâtre d’Agadir. Electrical work, air conditioning, ventilation, smoke extraction, and plumbing are all included. The plan for the Grand Theatre d’Agadir is part of a national strategy to promote and develop cultural infrastructure, particularly in Agadir. It shows the ambition to give the city a theater that will elevate it to the status of one of the Kingdom’s great metropolises. The Grand Theatre d’Agadir is expected to strengthen the city’s cultural history, in addition to the other cultural initiatives planned under Agadir’s Urban Development Program (PDU) for the years 2020–2024. Boulevard Mohammed V is a connecting and interurban road where the project is located. It is the climax of Parc Inbiaat’s major development project, which includes a number of cultural facilities and recreational places covering an area of 25 ha. The project is expected to form a cultural center with the green theater, a former open-air theater, and invite you to explore the theatrical universe. The Souss-Massa Regional Tourism Development Company (SDR) has already issued a call for proposals for the execution of the strategy for the operation and management of the latest cultural infrastructure. It is said that the aim is to identify the Grand Theatre management entity after establishing the model for managing and operating the equipment, developing the management entity’s business plan, and securing the exploitation budgets. In the areas of artistic cooperation and training, it is planned to anticipate the artistic season’s programming and establish strategic alliances with significant Moroccan theaters as well as local, national, and international cultural operators. This project’s phase also entails integrating it with its surroundings by forming partnerships with other local and Moroccan cultural institutions and initiating cooperative initiatives with associations, education partners, cultural actors, and organizations. In addition to the support period for the future management of the Grand Théâtre d’Agadir, this study will last seven months. It will be decided after a call for expressions of interest is planned to be launched.