Cameroon intends to obtain CFA 1,264 billion from investors to construct the Yaounde ring road and develop the four urban hubs linked to it, according to Minister of the Economy Alamine Ousmane Mey. Of the total amount, CFA794 billion will be spent on the bypass and CFA88 billion on compensation and population displacement, and CFA470 billion on the development of the capital’s four urban hubs and CFA20 billion on compensation and relocation. The Yaounde ring road project is one of the top goals in the Central African region’s EU-backed transport development plan. It was chosen as one of the projects that could benefit from blending financing on January 20, 2022, during the presentation of the report of the EU-commissioned technical assistance mission to the CEMAC and ECCAS nations in a bid to identify regional and national infrastructure projects that may benefit from this funding. Committed to the Cowi and Ecorys consortium, the Yaounde ring road project, according to the technical assistance mission, comprises the construction of over 44 kilometres of road that will boost the flow of trade between Cameroon, the Central African Republic (CAR), and Chad. Through this road, vehicles driving along the Douala-Ndjamena and Douala-Bangui corridors will be able to avoid traffic jams and other inconveniences when traversing downtown Yaounde. Studies have already been completed for this road, according to the documentation of the aforementioned technical assistance mission, and CFA495 billion finance in blending mode is being raised at the moment. Also Read: New Terminal for Construction in Douala Port, Cameroon In-depth technical studies carried out by the consultancy firm Cira-Sas between 2019 and 2021, show that only phase 1 of the entire Yaounde ring road project has been identified for this financing approach. This phase covers the 32 kilometer Nkong Biyem (RN3)-Nkoabang (RN10) section and the 10.3 kilometer Minkoameyos (Yaoundé-Douala highway)-Nkong Biyem (RN3) section. The complete technical studies for this phase are being carried out, according to the TED platform, the supplement to the EU official journal.