The Dubai International Airport (DXB)‘s Northern Runway Rehabilitation Project whose objective is to enhance the operational efficiency, capacity, and safety of the runway alongside all of its supporting systems is reportedly nearing completion. According to Dubai Airports Company, the airport authority that owns and manages airports in Dubai, the project has surpassed its scheduled midway point and it is projected to re-open this year, more specifically by June 22. In a statement, the airport’s operator revealed the essential work for the project includes the strengthening of the wider runway strip and reinforcing the paving on key taxiway exits as well as entries. The works also feature the resurfacing of the entire 4.5-kilometre-long runway and the repairing of drainage infrastructure. In addition to the aforementioned works, the meteorological equipment is also going to be replaced as well as the aeronautical ground lighting and navigational aids. The airport’s operator also revealed that the navigation aids substation is going to be relocated as the Southern runway continues to be operational. In an effort to stay on track with the works more than 3,000 people, and 1,000 vehicles have been deployed onsite. Reported earlier May 2021 Dubai Airport has confirmed the closure of the DXB northern runway in plans for the implementation of a rehabilitation project, scheduled between May 9th and June 22nd, a 45-day period. The DXB northern runway rehabilitation project will reportedly involve the placement of well over 30,000 m3 of concrete and 160,000 tonnes of asphalt to strengthen and resurface the adjacent taxiways as well as the runway. The project will also replace some 264 kilometres of secondary cables and approximately 4,400 runway lights will be upgraded to economic, environmentally friendly, and modern technology. Also Read: Plans Announced for Rail Freight Terminal at Dubai Industrial City Plans to minimize passenger disruptions as the DXB northern runway rehabilitation project continues As the DXB northern runway remains closed, several flights will be redirected to Dubai’s second airport, Dubai World Central (DWC) in an effort towards limiting the impact on service that will be present during the 45-day closure period. DWC will handle more than 1000 flights per week during the closure period with a huge majority of the flights being operated by Spice Jet, Gulf Air, flydubai, and Indigo. In addition to ensuring a smooth transition, DWC has set to re-open its guest experience and service touchpoints. Dubai Airports also ensured to give advance notice to all airlines to plan for flight reductions as well as schedule their planning accordingly. The CEO of Dubai Airports, Paul Griffiths, stated that the planning of the Dubai Airports northern runway rehabilitation project was carefully coordinated to minimize disruption to passengers, while still ensuring that the highest safety and guest experience standards at both airports were upheld.