Roofiing tile prices in Kenya are dependent on the type of tile as well as the brand. Below is a list of the roofing tile prices in Kenya of the top 5 brands. For comparison we have compared costs of covering 10 square meters of roofing.  Roman Tiles  80,900/=    Brick Tile Zen Tile  6500/= 6500/=  Roofing tiles can last well up to over 100 years, especially when they’ve been installed in an ideal climate. The main purpose of roofing tiles is to keep out rain, and the majority are often traditionally made from locally available materials. Common materials such as slate or terracotta are often what most roof tiles are made of, however, more modern materials such as plastic, concrete, and metal are also used. Roofing tiles are suspended from the framework of a building’s roof and are then fixed with nails. The roof tile is often suspended in parallel rows with each previous row or rather row below it. This sort of layout design for roofing tiles is to cover the nails that hold the row below as well as keep out rainwater. Roofing tiles come in a variety of shapes that include but are not limited to, flare, curved, interlocking, or fluted. Roofing tiles are considered to be a great option, especially for roofs that experience exposure to salt air and/or hot weather. Hence why roof tiles are often very common in coastal regions or rather regions. On the other hand, roofing tiles can also be ideal for climates that often experience large amounts of rainfall within a short time span. Some advantages of roofing tiles include but are not limited to, they are low maintenance, energy-efficient, long-lasting, environmentally friendly, and they are impervious to insect damage as well as rot. On the other hand, roofing tiles also do have some disadvantages, and these include their heavyweight, high cost, difficult to install, brittle and they are not suitable for all roof slopes. However, the majority of manufacturers often offer a 50-year warranty. Also Read Top 5 Water Tank Brands in Kenya  These types of roofing tiles are commonly considered to be the best material that can be used on a roof. The majority of builders, architects, and homeowners will almost always opt for clay roof tiles over other materials for roof tiles such as concrete roof tiles. An advantage of clay roof tiles is that since they are more durable and stronger, they offer a better build quality. In effect, these types of roofing tiles often have a longer lifespan. A disadvantage of clay roof tiles is that they are heavier than other materials, this then indicates that there is a limitation with these kinds of roofing tiles when it comes to the structure or building that they can be laid on. A stone-coated steel roofing tile can be made of 24 to 26-gauge rolled steel sheets with a coating that prevents rusting. These types of roofing tiles are often finished with a thick layer of stone that will permanently adhere to the surface while providing a decorative look. An advantage to this type of roofing is that if and when installed correctly, it can last a long time. The life span of a stone-coated steel roof tile is from 40 years to 70 years and often will need to be replaced approximately after every 20 years. A disadvantage of a stone-coated roof tile is that when there is hail or rainstorm, this type of roofing tile becomes noisy. Due to their durability and longevity, concrete roof tiles have been in use for centuries. These types of flooring tiles are often made from a mixture of water, gravel, cement, and sand. Concrete roof tiles are a popular choice, especially for areas that experience constant rain and/or snowfall. An advantage of concrete roof tiles is that they are also fire resistant as concrete is a material that will not easily burn and/or ignite as it is non-combustible. A disadvantage tp concrete roof tiles is that they are costly, especially when compared to other types of roofing tiles such as clay tiles, wood shakes, asphalt shingles, and not forgetting metal sheets. We obtained pricing of roofing tiles in Kenya from these top suppliers in the country Rexe Roofing provides affordable and quality roofing and waterproofing material. The company is locally owned and they aim to improve the living standards for homeowners. The company offers stone-coated roofing tiles in varying colors such as charcoal, forest green, marine blue, and tile red. TacTile makes use of Korean technology accompanied by raw Italian materials to deliver its roofing solutions. The company was incorporated in 2013, and TacTile is a brand under Tile & Carpet Centre Group. The company manufacturers stone-coated steel roofing tiles. Korean Roofings offer stone-coated roofing tiles that have been manufactured using Korean Technology. The company uses raw Italian materials alongside Korean steel. Their manufacturing process aims to ensure that the roofing tiles remain fade-free. Metrotile Lightweight Roofing offers a variety of durable roof tiles galvanized with aluminum-magnesium and zinc (ZAM) cover and further covered with a tone-chip coating Zenith Steel Fabricators Limited offers a wide array of construction products as well as services ranging from structural steelworks, zen tanks, zen racks, light gauge steel frames, and zencor roofing systems. They specialize in stone-coated roof tiles that are coated with natural stone chips retrieved from quarries. Capital Mabati Limited aims to provide roofing solutions that are affordable for homeowners. They offer a variety of durable roofing products such as roman tiles, and all their products are manufactured and designed in Kenya.