The Redcliff Cement Factory project is to include a second plant as part of a growth strategy costing US$100m. According to Livetouch managing director Kyle Wang, around $30 million was invested in the Redcliff cement factory, with an additional $15 million to $20 million committed in the first phase of the second cement plant. Also Read: Government Allocates US$ 13M for Second Education Project 2022 in Zimbabwe Oliver Kazunga, who was recently in Redcliffe  said Livetouch Investments, based in Redcliff near Kwekwe, aims to invest more than US$100 million in the development of a second manufacturing plant, which will be phased in as part of the firm’s growth strategy. The project’s construction is also part of the many investments expected in the country as a result of the President’s announcement that “Zimbabwe is open for business” under the Second Republic. Although the new factory’s location has yet to be determined, Livetouch has spent the last five years scouring the country for limestone reserves that would meet the anticipated expenditure. According to Livetouch managing director Kyle Wang, around $30 million was invested in the Redcliff cement factory, with an additional $15 million to $20 million committed in the first phase of the second cement plant. Approximately $15 million to $20 million will be invested in the project during the first phase. That’s a good start for investigating the resource (limestone reserves) and also for masking our existing users. The first phase will last a year or two, depending on the conclusion, and the second phase will most likely cost between $80 and $100 million. In 2017, the company opened its first cement factory, which has an installed capacity of up to 34 000 tonnes per month. The Redcliff-based cement producer is now generating just approximately 15 000 tonnes per month, which is less than half of the plant’s intended capacity. The firm is operating at 40 to 50% capacity, with three shifts employing around 260 workers. Mr Wang stated that the installed capacity of the new factory would be determined by its location, but the project is likely to produce 300 new employees. He stated that the main impediment to the realization of the proposed project was the lack of quality and substantial ore for such a large expenditure. Reported earlier July 2015 Mortal Investments Manufacturing Company, a Chinese company is set to construct a cement manufacturing plant worth US $10m in Redcliff, Zimbabwe. This will be done through a partnership between the company and local business men. According to the Mayor of Redcliff, Clr Freddy Kapuya, the deal by the Chinese company and his municipality had been finalised and the plant would be constructed on 100 000sqm hectares of land. The mayor also noted that the cement plant would use slag as a major component in its manufacturing. This uses chalk and clay which is hardened under water.Mortal Investments had initially showed interest in the purchase of three cement factories in Redcliff but changed their option to construction of a plant instead. This was due to the fact that the three factories combined would not offer the appropriate space they needed. Clr Kapuya noted that upon completion of the plant, it will be 75 percent owned by the locals while the remainder will be by the Chinese company. This will help create employment to more than 400 people in Redcliff. Another company, Yakushuku Manufacturing also showed interest in the construction of a US $25m cotton ginning and manufacturing Plant the Redcliff region. This plant will use solar power technology for its electricity and whenever there is an excess it will feed into the national grid. 