A US$ 118M mixed-use affordable housing project referred to as Bridge Rockaway has commenced construction in the Brownsville neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York. The new housing development is part of the housing reform plans of Governor Kathy Hochul, which will feature 174 affordable apartment units, along with a light manufacturing space spanning across 40,0000 square feet. The announcement on the Bridge Rockaway project was made recently at a ribbon cutting ceremony, which had in attendance several city and state officials, along with the project’s development team, consisting of The Bridge, Mega Development, and (GMDC) Greenpoint Manufacturing and Design Center. The Bridge Rockaway project will cover the development of two residential towers, separated by an 11,000-square-foot garden. According to Governor Hochul’s office, the housing project is also expected to provide 87 supportive units, out of which  35 units would be set aside for seniors and veterans in need of supportive services. The Empire State Supportive Housing Initiative will offer these units at subsidized rates. Also Read Funding Secured for Nashville Multifamily Development at Old Watkins College Campus, Tennessee In addition, over 50 units from the Bridge Rockaway project will be reserved for tenants at high risk of homelessness. The Bridge, a provider of  mental health and substance abuse services, job training, and housing support, will offer on-site supportive for the Bridge Rockaway project. Funding for these services will come from the NYC 15/15 Congregate Supportive Housing Services Program. All other units, excluding the supportive units, will be set at prices ranging between 30% and 70% of the Area Median Income, and future tenants will access the units through the Extremely Low- and Low-Income Affordability program, offered by the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD). Construction is expected to be completed by 2025. Antonio Reynoso, the Brooklyn Borough President, spoke on the features of the Bridge Rockaway project at the event, stating that the mixed-use buildings were the backbone of the new development, while the majority of the ground floors for these structures would be reserved for retail and commercial components. He also pointed out that having available manufacturing space was essential for boosting the economy of the community, city and state.