Madam Arde, Jomoro’s Municipal Chief Executive (MCE), recently began work for the re-construction of Saint Patrick Catholic Primary School in Half Assini. It is said that the school was Osagyefo Dr Kwame Nkrumah’s former school, where he received his early education and eventually became a teacher in the same institution. Following a visit to the school by the MCE and management of Ghana National Gas Company Limited to inspect the school’s dilapidated state, the proposal to rehabilitate it in honour of Dr Kwame Nkrumah was presented. It is said that Messrs Estek Vision Limited was awarded the contract for the project, which will be completed in four months. Madam Arde, while speaking at the sod-cutting ceremony for the re-construction of Saint Patrick Catholic Primary School, Madam Arde praised Ghana Gas for agreeing to rehabilitate the dilapidated school in honour of Dr Kwame Nkrumah. She also stated that she would ensure that the contractor completes the work on time. She called on other organizations to support the Assembly in improving the municipality’s educational infrastructure. Read also: Satotwa Primary School Project in Namibia: Access road to be constructed in readiness for the project Nana Ayebie Amihere VI, the Divisional Chief of Half Assini, expressed his delight and hailed the MCE for taking a proactive approach to the municipality’s development. The Divisional Chief also gave thanks to Ghana Gas for supporting the Saint Patrick Catholic Primary school and urged his subjects to help him in ensuring that the renovations are done smoothly. Once the re-construction of Saint Patrick Catholic Primary School is completed, he stated that the initiative will greatly improve the school’s enrollment. He appealed to the company’s management to provide furniture to the municipality’s schools. Speaking on behalf of Ghana Gas’ Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Joseph Ackah, guaranteed the MCE and the chiefs of the company’s full dedication to Jomoro Municipality’s development. He listed the various projects the company had completed in the municipality and pledged that the company would continue to assist the Assembly in developing the area. The project’s contractor, Messrs Estek Vision Limited, promised to carry out quality work and complete the project ahead of schedule, which was four months.