Plans have been revealed for the development of a Washougal Civic Recreation Complex in Washougal City’s downtown area, Washington. The new recreational complex will feature several outdoor amenities, including a water playground and dog park. According to the Washougal City Council, a  small, vacant field just north of the Washougal Community Center would be converted into an off-leash dog park, separated into two areas which will be used by small and large dogs and provisions will be made for a shelter, seating areas, and a water fountain. Also Read $27.9 M contract approved for Phase I of the Hemisfair Civic Park project The public works business administrator of Washougal City, Michelle Wright gave more details on the Washougal Civic Recreation project, which he said would have an entrance splitting off into two separate entry points that allow for large dogs to get access into one area and smaller dogs into the other side. Wright mentioned that the plan also includes a nature play area and an obstacle course, to keep the dogs moving and encourage them to roam throughout the facility. The city officials were also clamouring for an outdoor seating area to be added next to the Washougal Senior Center, as part of the Washougal Civic Recreation complex. This amenity will consist of an outdoor kitchen, seating area, grills, a water feature, and a bocce ball court. In addition, a small park will be included adjacent to the current Washougal Community Library, which will feature local artwork, outdoor seating,  a splashback, a planting area and a playground. David Scott, the Washougal Metropolis Supervisor, said the city was yet to work out the costs of developing the new Washougal Civic Recreation complex, but the city was ready to take the initiative and make every effort to secure not only the RCO grant but also other sources of funding which could become attainable in the coming months. Scott also pointed out that the city could also decide to use part of its pandemic recovery funds to finance the project; this refers to the $2.25 million, which the city received from the  American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) of 2021 and an additional $2.25 million will also be received this summer. Rochelle Ramos, the Mayor of Washougal city, also pointed out that the Washougal Civic Recreation complex was exactly what the city needed. She mentioned that the project not only adds some of the things requested by the citizens, but it will also make the downtown area more walkable, attract more future potential businesses and get more people into stores.