Construction has officially begun on a Heritage Creekside multifamily project, located at 601 Belpree Drive in Plano, Texas. This is the next phase of the 156-acre Heritage Creekside development, built through a joint venture between the Dallas-based Rosewood Property Company and New Jersey-based MetLife Investment Management. Rosewood owns the entire 156-acre site currently being used for the Heritage Creekside development, and construction work on the site has been in progress since 2014. It was initially estimated as a $900 million development, and the property currently features a mix of single-family homes, townhomes and restaurants. The new multifamily development will be built on a 4-acre plot, close to the intersection of Central Expressway and President George Bush Turnpike. Also Read Construction of residential community &#8216;Alta Davis&#8217; in North Carolina, US begins The Heritage Creekside multifamily project involves the construction of a 4-story residential building, which offers 326 apartment units, furnished with high-end finishes, appliances and fixtures. Residents will enjoy several shared amenities, including a club room, a standard fitness centre, a golf simulator, and a luxury pool area. In addition, a restored creek bed of Pitman Creek will also be accessible to the residents, along with other nearby natural features. According to Tim Harris, the Vice President of Rosewood, the design used for the multifamily project is intended to foster a sense of community among future residents and the surrounding neighbourhoods as well. The development will be completed in stages and is scheduled to reach completion by 2024. Apartments will also be available for lease by the fall of 2023, and move-ins are expected to commence in the latter part of the year. The development team working on the Heritage Creekside multifamily project, will include Provident General Contractors, serving as the contractor; the Texas-based KFM Engineering and Design handling the civil engineering; and a design team made up of Hensley Lamk8n Rachel Inc. as the architect; LandDesign as landscape designer; and B2 Architecture + Design as the interior designer on the project.