The Dewan Architects + Engineers, a multi-disciplinary design specialized in architectural and engineering designs for the commercial sector has been appointed as the lead design consultants for the Qiddiya Water Theme Park project, which is coming up in Saudi Arabia. The multidiscipline design firm has successfully been able to deliver the design of the water theme park and is currently supervising its physical construction. The firm, through a statement, said that they are currently working with a large team of renowned ride vendors and water theme park experts, alongside infrastructure and engineering professionals. Located at the heart of Qiddiya’s attractions the Qiddiya Water Theme Park will cover a total area of 337,948 square meters and it will feature 22 rides of which nine, are described to be “world-first” by Dewan. The firm further revealed that the park also features nine distinct districts that have each been inspired by habitats and native animals. The water theme park will be bigger than any such water park in the entire world. The park will also feature state-of-the-art facilities that will be able to accommodate and host world water tournaments. The project will cost approximately US$ 750M and it will make use of smart technology in ensuring that the park’s operations align with sustainability efforts. Dewan stated that the project is embracing the use of highly advanced environmental systems that will allow them to use 75% less water as compared to traditional practices. The CEO of Dewan Architects + Engineers, Ammar Al Assam, confidently expressed that the firm is extremely proud to contribute to the project. Reported earlier Feb 2022  The $750 million Qiddiya Water Theme Park contract has been awarded to ALEC Saudi Arabia Engineering & Contracting, and El Seif Engineering Contracting. The contract is a joint venture between the two companies and was formally and officially signed between ALEC’s CEO Kez Taylor, El Seif’s CEO Ahmed Al-Bassam, and Qiddiya’s managing director Abdullah Aldawood. The signing ceremony was held at the Qiddiya Experience Center, which was later patched up with a ground-breaking event to mark the beginning of the construction. The contract worth SAR 2.8 billion, was awarded by Qiddiya Investment Company (QIC) to facilitate the construction of Saudi Arabia’s first extension, the region’s first-ever largest water theme park. Read Also: Rainwater to be drained from cities of Cotonou and Bohicon The Qiddiya Water Theme Park has been set to be one of the key entertainment attractions located in the centre of Saudi Arabia, Riyadh. The location is also said to be the future capital of Entertainment, Culture, and Sports in the region. The project is projected to cover 252,000 m² of land and will include 22 rides, of which 9 will be the first in the world. The Qiddiya Water Theme Park has been designed so that visitors will have access to nine zones. These nine zones are – the Entry Gate, Dub Grotto, Wave Wadi, and Camel Rock. Viper Canyon, the Den, the Herding Grounds, Arabian Peak, and Surf Lagoon. The zones have been inspired by the native animals that have a habitat in the area surrounding Qiddiya. While at the signing ceremony, Abdullah confidently expressed that one of the goals of the project is to make the park a year-round immersive family entertainment destination. He added that they aim for the Qiddiya Water Theme Park will be the first of its kind and offer an experience that has not been offered before in Saudia Arabia.