The Digital Park Fechenheim is a project that Interxion plans to build in order to extend its presence in the east of Frankfurt. Following receipt of the necessary permits in 2021, the global market leader in colocation, along with representatives from the City of Frankfurt, the State Office for Monument Preservation of Hesse, and other partners, began construction on the first FRA 17 data centre with an official ceremony on the former Neckermann site in Frankfurt’s east. In the coming years, the new Digital Park Fechenheim will be erected there, a cutting-edge, sustainable campus with eleven data centres and a 100,000-square-meter IT area. The listed Egon-Eiermann building and its existing building fabric will be renovated in a resource-efficient manner as part of this. Furthermore, the new data centres will be developed in compliance with worldwide environmental building standards. As a result, the Digital Park Fechenheim is an innovative large-scale project that strengthens Frankfurt as the capital for Internet and cloud computing, as well as the backbone of the digital infrastructure, in the long term. It provides enterprises with access to networked ecosystems (“data communities”), which are critical to their operations today. This was only achievable due to the successful collaboration of all actors involved. Also, it provides enterprises with access to networked ecosystems (“data communities”), which are critical to their operations today. This was only achievable due to the successful collaboration of all parties concerned. Additionally, it provides enterprises with access to networked ecosystems (“data communities”), which are critical to their operations today. This was only achievable due to the successful collaboration of all actors involved.  With the investment and development of the Digital Park Fechenheim in Frankfurt, Interxion is stressing the importance of the region: Companies require a strong digital infrastructure to handle, analyze, and evaluate increasing amounts of data. In order to accommodate this demand, Interxion plans to build a new data centre campus on the former Neckermann site with an IT capacity of up to 200 MW in the final expansion. For the entire area, an innovative urban planning concept was implemented, which included the replanting of green spaces. As a result, more than 10,000 square meters of land will be opened up and the tree population will be greatly boosted. The plans also call for green facades and partial greening of the future data centres’ roofs. A pond will also be built in the campus’s centre. The goal of these comprehensive initiatives is to actively contribute to the beneficial development of the urban climate. Rainwater collected in cisterns provides irrigation for the green areas. These also feed the pond, which might be utilized for extinguishing water purposes, among other things. The municipal office’s utilization of rainwater resources for green spaces is also considered. Sustainability efforts for the Digital Park Fechenheim are also in the works. The new data centres will not only be powered entirely by renewable energy, but they will also investigate the possibility of self-generation. To that end, Interxion is currently conducting extensive simulations of all campus areas to determine whether they are suitable for the installation of photovoltaic modules — with the goal of not only producing their own green electricity but also increasing efficiency in the cooling of data centres and office space through shading. Also Read: US$ 1bn DeKalb Data Center Expansion Project in Chicago, Illinois, Underway The recycling of waste heat is also part of the concept. The Eiermann building will house around 18,000 square meters of office and storage space, which will be heated using waste heat generated by the surrounding data centres. Additional concepts for additional feeding into local and district heating networks are now being worked out and are about to be finished. Interxion is significantly increasing its presence in the east of Frankfurt and hence the footprint of its worldwide data centre platform PlatformDIGITAL® with the expansion of the former Neckermann site to the Digital Park Fechenheim, which is just around one kilometre from the Ostend campus. As a result, the organization provides its consumers with access to approximately 290 facilities in 47 major cities. Both facilities are linked by redundant fibre-optic lines and a variety of plumbing systems. Interxion thus enables its customers to achieve scalable and seamless development in the near vicinity of DE-CIX and, thanks to reduced latency, offers them the optimal colocation environment for future-oriented applications and business models (AI, digital transformation, etc). (AI, digital transformation, etc.).