The (LPC) Lincoln Property Company‘s Southwest arm, LPC Desert West is making moves to develop its Luke Field industrial project, after completing a 140-acre land acquisition of about $53 million in Glendale, Arizona. The $515 million development is intended to be the next mega metro Phoenix industrial project, spanning across 2.3 million-square-feet. The  Luke Field industrial project, which is named after the adjacent Luke Air Force Base and located just a few minutes from Loop 303, will also be bordered by the new Northern Parkway, Litchfield Road and Northern Avenue. A prime location,  providing transit access and strategic regional transportation connections for logistics-centric users. Also Read US$ 4.8M Caldwell Industrial Park to be Developed in Ohio, United States Three buildings have been planned for the new Luke Field industrial project and they will each occupy up to 1.26 million square feet, 416,000 square feet, and 604,000 square feet. The developers intend to incorporate the same high-end industrial amenities, which have become the standard for several of LPC’s award-winning industrial projects, just like the nearby Park303. Future tenants of the Luke Field industrial project will enjoy high-end industrial amenities, which include touchless technology all through the buildings, with 3,000 amps of power automated dock doors. The insides of the buildings will feature 40’ clear height, 25’ tall glass entries,  steel moment frame shear bracing and generous 5’ x 10’ clerestory windows on all elevations, offering sky views and shifting natural light. Other additional indoor/outdoor amenities  for the Luke Field industrial project will include a shaded outdoor eating area, barbeque stations, employee collaboration spaces, as well as extensive car and secure trailer parking spaces. A general contractor is yet to be selected, but Butler Design Group will serve as the architect for the project. Construction is expected to begin by the fourth quarter of 2022 and reach completion by the first quarter of 2024. David Krumwiede, the Senior Executive Vice President of LPC mentioned that his company shares a historic connection with the Luke Air Force Base, and this makes purchasing and developing land close to the base something truly worth while. Krumwiede said that he had served as an Honorary Commander for the Luke’s 56th Fighter Wing, along side the  LPC Vice President, John Orsak.