Heat Biologics Inc., a biopharmaceutical company is planning the development of its $650 million Scorpion Biological project in Manhattan, targeted at producing commercial vaccines to enhance the biodefense of the United States. This new bio-manufacturing facility will be developed through a partnership between the State of Kansas, the city of Manhattan, Manhattan Chamber of Commerce, Pottawatomie County, Manhattan Area Technical College,  Kansas State University Innovation Partners, and several private companies. Jeff Wolf, the founder of Heat Biologics noted that due to the COVID pandemic and recent geopolitical events, there was an urgent need for rapid responses to potential biological threats. He pointed out that the new Scorpion Biological project in Manhattan would enhance the domestic production of vital biologics to protect Americans from deadly diseases. Also Read US$ 700M Lilly Institute for Genetic Medicine to be developed in Boston Located next to a business park on U.S. Highway 24 East of Manhattan, the 500,000-square-foot Scorpion Biological Services facility will be used in conducting various stages of drug development, involving conception, research, clinical trials and commercial production. The facility will also be in close proximity to some major institutions in the state such as the Biosecurity Research Institute, the Kansas State University, the National Bio and Agro-Defense Facility and others. The design and engineering aspects of the Scorpion Biological project will be handled by CRB Group, a nationally recognized firm known for designing and building bio-manufacturing facilities. While Realty Trust Group (RTG), a leading healthcare/life sciences real estate advisory and development firm, will serve as the lead developer on the project. According to Wolf, his business model emphasizes on using American-made equipment, materials and bio-manufacturing substances for projects. He also expects that through the Scorpion Biological project, and the partnerships between Kansas state and local technical college, there would be opportunities to create academic programs and training for students aspiring to careers in biological sciences. The Kansas State Governor, Laura Kelly described the Scorpion Biological project as a game-changing facility that will result in a massive positive impact on the state. The Manhattan facility is expected to have a $1 billion impact on the Kansas economy and generate up to 500 employment opportunities, averaging $75,000 per annum over a seven-year period.