City and County officials of San Diego are applying for a US$ 12M Project Home key funding to kick start the city’s PATH Villas El Cerrito, a two-phased residential project developed through a partnership between the City of San Diego,  (People Assisting the Homeless) PATH Ventures, and Bold Communities, a non-profit based in Los Angeles. The excavation work of the first phase of the project, the cost of which is expected to be around US$ 24M, has already begun in preparation for the actual construction works that are expected to commence this November and be completed next summer. This phase will bring in 40 housing units, 18 of which will be set aside as affordable housing, while the remaining 22 will be designated for people regarded as the chronically homeless. Also Read: US$100mn San Diego Greystar luxury apartment complex nears completion Phase II of the project is expected to reach completion by the end of 2024. It will add 140 affordable housing units to the current project site, located at 5476 El Cajon Blvd., in Mid-City’s neighbourhood of San Diego. The 140 affordable housing units will consist of 127 studio apartments, 12 one-bedroom apartments and one manager’s unit. The Mayor of San Diego, Todd Gloria and the County Board of Supervisors chairman, Nathan Fletcher in a previous joint press release, mentioned that construction on the PATH Villas El Cerrito project would involve the use of prefabricated, container-based housing, which will be stacked up to five levels; these housing units will be directly above the integrated health and physical rehabilitation clinic, to be operated by Family Health Centers on the ground floor. A medical clinic that is expected to provide mental health care, preventative and medical care, substance-use treatment, dental care and other supportive services. to El Cerrito will also be delivered as part of the PATH Villas El Cerrito phase 1 project. In addition, other amenities will be provided on the site such as a dog park and a business centre to assist with searching for employment opportunities.