A project for the redevelopment of a parking lot situated at 255 Fillmore St., into a seven-storey Class A office and retail building dubbed Fillmore Office Building in Denver is in the offing. The project is led by BMC Investments, a Denver-basedvertically integrated real estate investment firm. According to the CEO of BMC Matt Joblon, the Fillmore Office building which is already 93% pre-leased was borne out of the demand for office space in the neighbourhood Post covid19. The building will have two sections of different heights; one part of the building will be five stories and the rest of it will be seven stories, based on the zoning requirements of the area. Development plans for the Office building show that it will occupy up to 100,000 square feet, with about 9,500 square feet of retail space building’s ground floor. Six floors of the building will be designated for office space and other amenities will be provided on the property, which includes a private open-air terrace on the 6th floor, a large outdoor green area, valet parking, bike storage, and a concierge. Also Read: US$ 400M Lawrence Office Tower Set to Break Ground in Denver, Colorado Joblon also pointed out that one of the attractive features of the Fillmore Office building for tenants was the idea of having a restaurant on the ground floor. He said this was really seen as a major amenity to office users, where they could just take the elevator downstairs to have dinners or hold meetings. The ground floor of the Fillmore Office building will house the nationally acclaimed Lè Colonial, a fine dining restaurant, offering a combination of Vietnamese and French cuisine in a romantic, dreamy and escapist atmosphere which reflects Saịhọn in the 1920s.  Other tenants who have pre-leased the building are those in the private energy space, wealth management, investment banking, energy investment and other industries. The leasing arrangements for the retail spaces on the property are being handled by Sam Zaitz at JLL, while Newmark is in charge of the marketing of the office space. Haselden Construction was hired as the contractor, with 4240 Architecture serving as the architect for the project. The expected delivery date for the project is set for the third quarter of 2023.