Line 5 of the Nairobi Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) along the Outer Ring Road is scheduled to begin construction in June 2023. The Kenya Urban Roads Authority granted a Sh583 million consultation contract to a Korean consortium led by Kunhwa engineering firm last week. On Saturday, May 21, Kunhwa engineering and consulting personnel were represented by Jeong Youn, and Kura director general Silas Kinoti signed the consultant contract at KURA headquarters, Barabara Plaza. Also Read: Phase Two Construction of 2nd Container Terminal at Port of Mombasa in Kenya Complete During the defects liability period, the organization is expected to complete a full engineering design and aid with contractor selection, construction supervision, and support. BRT Line 5, popularly known as Nyati, runs from Ridgeways (Kiambu road) to Balozi (Allsops), then via Outering to Imara Daima. Kura Director-General Silas Kinoti stated that the consultants have the authority’s full cooperation and assistance to complete the project as soon as possible. On Saturday, Kinoti addressed during the contract signing ceremony at Kura’s headquarters at Barabara Plaza. According to the director, BRT Line 5 is one of the most significant lines since it connects to all other lines. Min Kyeong Jeong, project manager of Kunhwa, stated that the project would be completed quickly. He stated that the team is dedicated to doing all necessary to ensure a rapid setup. The Outer Ring Road BRT project is supported by a loan from the Economic Development Cooperation Fund and the Export-Import Bank of Korea. The Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan includes BRT, which is being deployed to reduce automobile congestion in the CBD. There are 5 BRT lines to be constructed in Nairobi Namata gazetted five BRT lines, which are in various stages of construction, to help decongest the city. Line 1 Ndovu connects Limuru, Kangemi, CBD, Imara Daima, the Athi River, and Kitengela. Simba Line 2 connects Rongai-Bomas-Langata Road-CBD-Ruiru-Thika and Kenol. It is 70% finished and will be implemented in two trial phases. The first phase will run from Kasarani to Kenyatta National Hospital, while the second phase will go from Ruiru to KNH. Line 2 will include 13 intermediate stops with a total of 24 platforms. Kasarani is also getting a park-and-ride facility. It will allow cars travelling to the CBD to abandon their automobiles and take BRT buses for the balance of their journey. Chui Line 3 connects Tala-Njiru-Dandora (Juja road)-CBD-Show Ground (Ngong road), and Ngong. Line 4 Kifaru is made up of East and West. The East one connects Mama Lucy Hospital, Donholm (Jogoo road), and the CBD. The western one connects CBD-T Mall-Bomas-Karen and Kikuyu. Reported July 2020 The government of Kenya, through the Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (NaMATA), has begun the process of purchasing buses for use on the Nairobi Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) system. In an advertisement ran in local dailies, NaMATA invited tenders from qualified parties to supply the high capacity buses destined particularly for the BRT system along the Thika superhighway through the Nairobi Central Business District to the Kenyatta National Hospital (KHN) area, which has been under construction for more than two years. According to Transport Principal Secretary Charles Hinga, the initial fleet requirement for the 27 km stretch is 100 12-meter buses, which he says will give 3min headway during peak hour and 5 minutes off-peak. Among the buses requested are electric, hybrid as well as biodiesel types as the city leans towards green energy and climate conservation. NeMATA indicated that it is seeking to purchase the vehicles or hold a lease of not less than 36 months. Also Read: Construction of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system in Kenya to begin next month “Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (NaMATA) invites sealed tenders from original bus manufacturers, motor vehicle dealers, leasing companies, financial institutions, and interested firms for the provision of buses and transport services for the Nairobi BRT system through leasing. The buses, which will be considered in 3 options based on propulsion technology including electric, hybrid as well as biodiesel and other options, will be for sale or a proposed lease tenure of a three, seven and 12 years’ period,” read the statement. Bidders shall submit both technical and financial proposals in separate envelopes within a period of 280 days counting from February 1st. The tenders, which must be accompanied by a bid security of sh 1 million from a reputable bank, shall be opened on Tuesday 22 March. The Nairobi BRT system was proposed by the NAMATA in a 2019 report as a strategy for easing traffic congestion in the city, where over three million commuters spend an average of 57 minutes every day on short journeys. According to the report, the unending traffic in Nairobi costs the East African country’s economy US$ 1bn a year in lost productivity. The system covers Nairobi City County and the adjoining counties including Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos, and Murang’a, and it includes a total of five lines named after Kenya’s Big Five animals i.e. Simba (Lion), Kifaru (Rhino), Chui (Leopard), Ndovu (Elephant), and Nyati (Buffalo). The lines are Ndovu (Kangemi – Imara), Simba (Bomas – Ruiru, which includes Thika Superhighway), Chui (Njiru – Show Ground). Kifaru (Mama Lucy – T-Mall), and Nyati (Balozi – Imara). What we reported in July 2020 A Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system in Kenya, along the Thika superhighway through the Nairobi Central Business District to the Kenyatta National Hospital (KHN) area is set to begin construction next month. This is after the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development signed an over US$ 51M contract with Stecol Corporation for the implementation of the project. According to Charles Hinga, the ministry’s Principle secretary, the contractor is currently mobilizing its workforce to start executing the first phase of the project covering the corridor from Clay works through Haile Selassie Avenue to Kenyatta National Hospital area. Also Read: Kenya to construct three new footbridges on Ngong Road in Nairobi Alongside the development of the two innermost lanes of the highway to accommodate special high-capacity buses and erecting boarding ramps to ease access to the buses, the contractor will also build support facilities such as boarding stations and footbridges. A park-and-ride facility is also planned for construction at the Kasarani area to allow commuters heading to the city center to park their vehicles and transfer to the mass transport bus for the remainder of the journey. This phase is projected to be completed within a span of eight months. The mass transport project will engage 100 buses with a capacity of about 160 passengers in the initial phase before scaling up operations progressively. These buses will be run by private operators but regulated by the Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (NaMATA). Francis Gitau, the chief executive of NaMATA, said that the buses will be equipped with Wi-Fi and coffee shops and that the passengers will use electronic cards to pay for the services. “The aim is to introduce a reliable and efficient mass transit system that will attract even those using private vehicles,” explained Mr. Gitau. The BRT system is mainly meant to support the city’s rickety public commuter services and help ease traffic congestion.